Carbon-Based Nanomaterials as an Anode for Lithium
Ion Battery
Fei Yao, Costel Sorin Cojocaru
To cite this version:
Fei Yao, Costel Sorin Cojocaru. Carbon-Based Nanomaterials as an Anode for Lithium Ion
Battery. Micro and nanotechnologies/Microelectronics. Ecole Polytechnique X, 2013. English.
<pastel-00967913>
HAL Id: pastel-00967913
https://pastel.archives-ouvertes.fr/pastel-00967913
Submitted on 31 Mar 2014
HAL is a multi-disciplinary open access L’archive ouverte pluridisciplinaire HAL, est
archive for the deposit and dissemination of sci- destine´e au de´poˆt et a` la diffusion de documents
entific research documents, whether they are pub- scientifiques de niveau recherche, publie´s ou non,
lished or not. The documents may come from e´manant des e´tablissements d’enseignement et de
teaching and research institutions in France or recherche franc¸ais ou e´trangers, des laboratoires
abroad, or from public or private research centers. publics ou prive´s.
                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carbon-Based Nanomaterials as an Anode 
for Lithium Ion Battery 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fei YAO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LPICM-École Polytechnique, CNRS (UMR 7647)  
Laboratoire de Physique des Interfaces et Couches Minces 
Route de Saclay; 91128 PALAISEAU Cedex , France 
 
 
 
 
The Graduate School 
Sungkyunkwan University 
Department of Energy Science (DOES) 
IBS Center for Integrated Nanostructure Physics  
300 Cheoncheon-dong, Jangan-gu, Suwon 440-746, R. O. Korea 
 
 
                     
 
THÈSE 
 
Présentée pour obtenir le grade de 
DOCTEUR DE L’ ÉCOLE POLYTECHNIQUE 
Spécialité: Physique 
Par 
Fei YAO 
 
 
 
Carbon-Based Nanomaterials as an Anode 
for Lithium Ion Battery 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soutenue le 27 / 06 / 2013 devant le jury constitué de : 
 
 
M. Jean-Pierre Pereira-Ramos Directeur de Recherche CNRS Rapporteur 
M. Kee Seok Nahm Professor à Chonbuk National University Rapporteur 
M. Won Sub Yoon Professor à Sungkyunkwan University Examinateur 
M. Marc Chatelet Directeur de Recherche CNRS Examinateur 
M. Costel-Sorin Cojocaru Chargé de recherche au CNRS Directeur de Thèse 
Enseignant à l’École polytechnique  
M. Young Hee Lee Professor à Sungkyunkwan University Directeur de Thèse 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LABORATOIRE DE PHYSIQUE DES INTERFACES ET COUCHES MINCES (LPICM) 
CNRS, UMR7647, ÉCOLE POLYTECHNIQUE 
 
 
 
  
 
The Graduate School 
Sungkyunkwan University 
June 2013
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
First and foremost, I would like to express my greatest gratitude to Prof. 
Young Hee Lee and Dr. Costel Sorin Cojocaru, my advisors of graduate research, for 
their patient guidance and continuous support throughout the last three years. They 
taught me strict sense of research, humble attitude of study, and correct path in life. I 
feel so lucky and honored for being their student in the most important days of my 
growth. Their great fairness, concern and understanding will be appreciated through 
all my life. 
My sincerely thanks are extended to all my coworks, Dr. Fethullah Güneş, Mr. 
Bing Li, Dr. Kangpyo So, Mr. Huy Quang Ta, Mr. Jian Chang, Mr. An Quoc Vu, Mr. 
Seung Jin Chae, Dr. Hongyan Yue, Prof. Didier Pribat and Prof. Sishen Xie, in 
Sungkyunkwan University. And also Dr. Seung Mi Lee from Center for 
Nanocharacterization, Korea Research Institute of Standards, Dr. Kyeu Yoon Sheem 
from Science and Samsung SDI Corporate R&D Center. 
I would like to dedicate this thesis to my parents and sister for their continuous 
understanding, support, and love. My deepest appreciation to my beloved husband, 
Humin Li, for his love, encouragement and accompanying all the time!  
 
 
TO MY PARENTS… 
 
 
 ABSTRACT 
 
 
 
In this thesis work, carbon-based nanomaterials using as an anode for 
lithium ion battery have been generally investigated. Compared to typical 
micron-sized carbon materials, nanosized carbon materials exhibited great 
potentials not only in practical anode application but also in the fundamental 
science exploration of Li ion diffusion. In the case of practical application, one 
dimensional carbon nanofibers (CNFs) fabricated by electrospinning was 
prepared for anode material. The structure involves neither a metal substrate nor 
binders and therefore eventually benefited the capacity and long term stability. 
Yet, the energy density is still limited to 370 mAh/g of conventional carbon. In 
order to improve the capacity of raw carbon nanofibers, silicon, a high Li storage 
material, was incorporated by electrochemical deposition. The resulted Si/CNF 
mat improved clearly the capacity of carbon materials more than twice for most 
of cases.  
 
In the case of fundamental study, chemical vapor deposition (CVD)-
synthesized two dimensional graphene was chosen to be a media to reveal the 
diffusion pathways of Li ion. Compared to typical graphite which contains both 
basal and edge planes, a well defined basal plane with large area can be realized 
in graphene to provide a comprehensive picture of lithium diffusion mechanism. 
We have discovered that electrochemical reaction of electrode 
(substrate/graphene) not only is related to the number of graphene layers but also 
relies on the defect sites on the basal plane of graphene. Combing the 
experimental results and density functional theory calculations, we proved that 
basal plane hindered lithium ion diffusion with a high diffusion barrier height, 
whereas divacancies and higher order defects can be shortcuts for lithium ion 
diffusion. 
 
 
Keyworks: nanocarbon materials, lithium ion battery, carbon nanofiber, silicon, 
graphene, lithium ion diffusion 
 
 
 
 
I 
 
RESUME 
 
 
 
Dans ce travail de thèse, nous avons exploré l’utilisation des nanomatériaux 
à base de carbone comme anode pour les batteries lithium-ion. Par rapport aux 
matériaux d’anode classiques qui sont de type carbone graphitique a des tailles de 
grains de l’ordre du micromètre, les matériaux de carbone de taille nanométrique 
présentent un grand potentiel non seulement pour l'application pratique en tant 
que matériau d'anode, mais aussi du point de vue de la science fondamentale car 
permettent l'exploration fine des phénomènes de diffusion des ions lithium. Dans 
le cadre de l'application pratique, nous avons exploré les nanofibres 
unidimensionnelles de carbone (CNF) en tant que matériau d'anode. Cette 
structure d’anode comporte un substrat métallique comme collecteur de courant 
mais n’avons pas utilisé des liants ce qui bénéficie a la stabilité à long terme. 
Pourtant, la densité d'énergie que nous avons obtenu était encore limitée à 370 
mAh /g similaire à celle du carbone conventionnel. Afin d'améliorer la capacité 
des nanofibres de carbone bruts, nous les avons recouverts de silicium (par dépôt 
électrochimique), un matériau d’insertion de lithium avec une bien plus 
importante capacité de stockage. Le tapis hybrides Si / CNF ont permis 
d'améliorer nettement la capacité des matériaux de carbone jusqu'à deux fois de 
plus pour la plupart des cas. 
 
    Du point de vue des études fondamentales, le graphène matériau 
bidimensionnel, a été synthétisé par dépôt chimique en phase vapeur (CVD) et 
utilisé comme un support pour mettre en évidence les chemins de diffusion des 
ions lithium. Par rapport à du graphite classique qui contient à la fois les deux 
plans de type basal et prismatique, seulement un plan basal bien défini et d’une 
grande surface spécifique peut être réalisé dans le cas du graphène. Nous avons 
découvert que la réaction électrochimique a l'électrode (substrat / graphène) est 
non seulement liée au nombre de couches de graphène mais s'appuie également 
sur la présence de défauts dans le plan de graphène. Combinant les résultats 
expérimentaux et les calculs de théoriques, nous avons pu prouver que le plan 
basal empêche la diffusion des ions de lithium avec une hauteur de barrière de 
diffusion élevé, alors que les divacancies et les défauts d'ordre supérieur peuvent 
constituer des raccourcis pour la diffusion des ions de lithium. 
 
 
Keyworks: Matériaux des nanocarbonés, batterie lithium-ion, nanofibre de 
carbone, Silicium, graphène, diffusion des ions lithium 
II 
 
Table of Contents 
1 
Introduction 
Bibliography of Introduction 4 
Chapter 1. Overview of Rechargeable Lithium Ion Battery 
1.1   Electrochemical Energy Storage Systems 6 
1.2  Rechargeable Lithium Based Battery 8 
1.3  Rechargeable Lithium Ion Battery 11 
Bibliography of Chapter 1 13 
Chapter 2. Carbonaceous Materials as An Anode of Li-Ion Battery  
2.1   Operation Mechanism of Li-Ion Battery 16 
2.2  Classification of Carbonaceous Materials 21 
2.2.1  Graphitic Carbon 21 
2.2.2 Non-graphitic Carbon 22 
2.3   Lithium Intercalation into Carbonaceous Materials 24 
2.3.1 Lithium Intercalation into Graphitic Carbon Materials 24 
2.3.1-1  Description 24 
2.3.1-2  Charge/Discharge Profile of Graphitic Carbon Materials 26 
2.3.2  Lithium Intercalation into Non-graphitic Carbon Materials 29 
III 
 
2.3.2-1  Low Specific Charge Carbon 29 
2.3.2-2  High Specific Charge Carbon 31 
2.4  Summary of Chapter Two 36 
Bibliography of Chapter 2 38 
Chapter 3. Silicon-Coated Carbon Nanofiber Mat for Anode of Lithium 
Ion Battery  
One Dimensional Carbon Materials as an Anode Material for 
3.1   51 
LIB 
3.1.1  General Introduction of CNFs and CNTs 51 
3.1.2  CNFs and CNTs Using as an Anode Material for LIB 56 
3.1.3  Fabrication Methods of CNFs and CNTs 58 
3.1.3-1  Chemical Vapor Deposition for Both CNFs and CNTs 58 
3.1.3-2  Electrospinning Method for CNFs Mat 63 
Electrospinning Fabricated CNFs Mat as an Anode Material 
3.2   66 
for LIB 
SEM and Raman Characterization of CNFs Synthesized 
3.2.1  67 
Through Electrospinning 
Anode Performance of CNFs Synthesized Through 
3.2.2  69 
Electrospinning 
3.3.3 Anode Performance of CNF-Si Mat 83 
IV 
 
3.4   Summary of Chapter Three 95 
Bibliography of Chapter 3 97 
Chapter 4. Diffusion Mechanism of Lithium Ions through Basal Plane of 
Layered Graphene 
4.1 Brief Introduction of Two Dimensional Graphene 105 
4.1.1 General Physical Properties of Graphene 105 
4.1.2 Synthesis Methods of Graphene 110 
Diffusion Mechanism of Lithium Ions through Basal Plane of 
4.2 113 
Layered Graphene 
4.2.1 Material Preparation 116 
4.2.2 Transfer Process of Graphene 116 
4.2.3 Characterization of Graphene 117 
4.2.4 Anode Performance of Graphene 121 
4.3 Summary of Chapter Four 140 
Bibliography of Chapter 4 141 
 
 
 
 
V 
 
List of Tables 
Table 3.1 Anode performance comparison of silicon/CNF composites 89 
fabricated by different methods. CNF film is usually fabricated 
by mixing CNF powder with a binder. CNF mat is binder-free 
freestanding film fabricated by electrospinning method. 
Table 4.1 Defects related Li adsorption energy, and Li atomic charges 137 
calculated by Mulliken, Hirshfeld, and electrostatic potential 
(ESP) at the minimum energy configurations (M) and the barrier 
states (B). Positive charge indicates charge depletion from 
lithium atom.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VI 
 
List of Figures 
Fig. 1.1 Ragone plot showing energy density vs. power density for 7 
various energy storage devices. 
Fig. 1.2  Comparison of the different battery technologies in terms of 8 
volumetric and gravimetric energy density. 
Fig. 1.3 Schematic representation of lithium batteries. a, Rechargeable 10 
lithium-metal battery, dendrite formation was shown in the 
negative electrode. b, Rechargeable lithium-ion battery.   
Fig. 1.4 Current issues remaining in different types of anode materials. 12 
Fig. 2.1 Schematic illustration of detailed charge/discharge process in Li- 15 
ion battery.   
Fig. 2.2 Potential profile of anode and cathode during charge/discharge.    17 
Fig. 2.3 Charge curves of different metals (M) with respect to highly 18 
oriented turbostratic pitch carbon fibers.    
Fig. 2.4 Left: Schematics of the crystal structure of hexagonal graphite 20 
with an AB stacking order. Right: view perpendicular to the 
basal plane of graphite. Edges can be subdivided into arm-chair 
and zigzag faces.     
Fig. 2.5 Schematic indications of (a) graphite and (b) non-graphitic 23 
(disordered) carbonaceous material. 
Fig. 2.6 Structure indications of LiC6. (a) Left: schematic drawing 25 
showing the AA layer stacking sequence with Li intercalation. 
Right: simplified representation. (b) Perpendicular view to the 
basal plane of LiC6. (c) Enlarged schematic of AA stacking 
order. 
VII 
 
Fig. 2.7 Schematic indication of stage formation during Li ion 26 
intercalation into graphite layers. 
Fig. 2.8 Constant current charge/discharge curves of the graphite 27 
(Timrex KS 44, Cirr is the irreversible specific charge, and Crev is 
the reversible specific charge). 
Fig. 2.9 Constant current charge/discharge curves of a coke (Conoco). 31 
(Cirr is the irreversible specific charge, Crev the reversible 
specific charge).  
Fig. 2.10 a) Storage mechanisms of Li ions in graphite. b) Li storage in a 33 
form of Li2 covalent molecules. c) Schematic model of Li 
storage in cavities and nanopores. d) Li adsorption on the two 
sides of an isolated graphene sheet.  
Fig. 2.11 Constant current charge/discharge curves (1st and 2nd cycle) of 34 
a high specific charge carbon material after heat treatment at 700 
°C. (Cirr is the irreversible specific charge, Crev the reversible 
specific charge). 
Fig. 3.1 Schematic comparison of the diameter dimensions on a log scale 52 
for various types of fibrous carbons.        
Fig. 3.2 Wrapping of graphene sheet to form SWNT. 53 
Fig. 3.3 Schematic indications of (a) SWCNT, (b) MWCNT, and the 54 
corresponding TEM images in (c) and (d). 
Fig. 3.4 Chiral vector  and chiral angle θ definition for a (2, 4) 55 
nanotube on graphene sheet.  and .are the unit cell vectors 
of the two-dimensional hexagonal graphene sheet. The 
circumference of nanotube is given by the length of chiral 
vector. The chiral angle θ is defined as the angle between 
VIII 
 
chiral vector and the zigzag axis. 
Fig. 3.5 CVD process-fabricated (a) CNT power, (b) vertically aligned 59 
CNTs, and (c) CNF planar network. 
Fig. 3.6 Typical anode assembling based on CVD process fabricated 62 
carbon powder. 
Fig. 3.7 Schematic of CNF mat fabrication processes: (a) schematic of 65 
electrospinning apparatus and (b) the fabricated nanofiber 
network. 
Fig. 3.8 SEM images of as-synthesized CNFs with (a) top view and (b) 68 
cross-sectional images. 
Fig. 3.9 Micro Raman spectra of CNFs mat fabricated by electrospinning 68 
method. 
Fig. 3.10 (a) Voltage profiles electrospinning fabricated CNF mat between 70 
0.01 and 2 V at a charging rate of 0.1 C. The cycle numbers are 
indicated in the figure. (b) Rate performance and columbic 
efficiency of the above sample. 
Fig. 3.11 (a) Structure deformation indication of Si based film/particles 73 
before and after charge/discharge cycling. (b) SEI images of 
st th
CVD deposited Si thin film on Cu stustrate after 1  and 30  
cycles of charge/discharge. 
Fig. 3.12 Schematic of the apparatus for electrodeposition of Si. The cell 74 
consists of three electrodes: woking electrode (as-fabricated 
CNF mat), counter electrode (Pt wire) and reference electrode 
+
(Ag/Ag ). During the deposition, a Si-containing electrolyte 
(SiCl4 in PC) was add into the cell and a cyclic voltage scan (20 
-1
mV s ) was applied to the electrodes. 
IX 
 
Fig. 3.13 (a) Cyclic voltammograms of silicon electrodeposition in PC 76 
-1
solution with/without SiCl4 at a scan rate of 20 mV s . (b) Mass 
and thickness of Si/CNF mat with respect to different silicon 
deposition cycles. The error bar is added in the figure. 
Fig. 3.14 (a) Micro-Raman spectra of bare CNF mat and Si/CNF mat with 78 
200 cycles of Si deposition before/after annealing, indicated as 
Si-200-p and as Si-200-a in the figure. (b) XPS spectra of the 
electrode surface with active materials consisting of Si-200-p 
and Si-200-a, respectively. 
Fig. 3.15 SEM images of (a) Si-200-p and (b) Si-200-a samples. Dark 79 
color portion indicates electrolyte residues on the surface of 
CNF mat. After 1000 °C annealing, the uniform mat surface was 
observed by the removal of electrolyte, as shown in (b).    
Fig. 3.16 (a) SEM images of as-synthesized bare CNFs and (b) Si-200-a. 80 
The cross-sectional images are shown in the insets. (c) AFM 
image of Si-200-a. The high resolution image of dashed square 
in (c) is shown in (d). 
Fig. 3.17 (a) TEM image of Si-200-a. The EDS line profile along the 81 
dashed line is shown in (b). 
Fig. 3.18 High-resolution XPS spectra of Si/CNF with 200 cycles of Si 83 
deposition before and after annealing. Figure (a) and (c) are C 1s 
and Si 2p fitted peaks before annealing. (b) and (d ) are C 1s and 
Si 2p fitted peaks after 1000 °C annealing. Peak positions and 
relative ratios are shown in the figure. 
Fig. 3.19 (a) CV profile comparison between bare CNF mat and CNF mat 84 
° stafter 1000 C annealing. The curves were recorded after 1  CV 
-1
scan between 0.01 to 2 V at a scan rate of 0.1 mV s . (b) AC 
X 
 
impedance spectra of the above two electrodes. The spectra were 
recorded right after the cell assembling before cycling. 
nd th
Fig. 3.20 (a) The 2  and 10  cyclic voltammograms of CNF-a (square), 86 
Si-200-p (dashed line) and Si-200-a (solid line) mats between 
-1
0.01 and 2 V at a scan rate of 0.1 mV s . (b) and (c) are voltage 
profiles of Si-200-p/Si-200-a and CNF-a/Si-200-a between 0.01 
and 2 V at a charging rate of 0.1 C. The cycle numbers are 
indicated in the figure. (d) Charge/discharge capacity and 
Coulombic efficiency of Si-200-a for the first 80 cycles. 
Fig. 3.21 (a) Charge (filled symbols)/discharge (open symbols) capacity in 90 
terms of different numbers of silicon deposition cycles after high 
temperature annealing. Capacity was calculated based on silicon 
mass only. Sample indications are shown in the right dashed 
square. (b) AC impedance spectra of the above five electrodes. 
The spectra were recorded right after the cell assembling before 
cycling. The equivalent circuit is shown in the inset. The related 
resistance value in Figure (b) was plotted in Figure (c) with 
respect to different silicon deposition cycles. 
Fig. 3.22 SEM images of (a-b) Si-1500-p and (c-d) Si-1500-a samples. 92 
Fig. 3.23 Charaterizations of Si-200-a electrode after 80 cycles 94 
charge/discharge. (a) Top-view SEM image, (b) Cross-sectional 
SEM image, (c) High resolution TEM image, and (d) AFM 
image. The SEI layer was selectively removed by washing the 
sample with acetonitrile and diluted HCl. 
Fig. 4.1 Graphene is a basic 2D building block for other carbon 106 
allotropes with different dimensionalities. 
Fig. 4.2 a) Honeycomb lattice of graphene with two carbon atoms per 107 
XI 
 
unit cell. b) Tight-binding band structure of graphene π-bands, 
considering only nearest neighbor hopping. c) Band structure 
near K point showing the linear dispersion relation. 
Fig. 4.3 Electronic Structure of: a) Metal: Finite Density of States (DOS) 109 
at Fermi energy. b) Semiconductor: Gap at Fermi energy. c) 
Graphene: Zero gap Semiconductor. Zero DOS metal. 
Fig. 4.4 Production techniques of graphene: a) Micro-cleavage method, 112 
isolating graphitic layers from graphite into monolayer graphene 
flakes with the help of a cohesive tape, b) epitaxial growth of 
graphene by decomposition of SiC into graphene, c) chemical 
vapor deposition method by decomposition of hydrocarbon 
gases on metal substrates, and d) chemical exfoliation of 
graphite oxide by weakening van der Waals cohesive force via 
insertion of reactants into interlayer space. 
Fig. 4.5 Schematic of fabrication process with Cu-grown SLG or Ni- 117 
grown MLG (left panel). Bilayer and trilayer graphene can be 
fabricated by transferring monolayer graphene repeatedly. 
Photograph of as-prepared monolayer graphene (PMMA on top) 
floating in water and CR 2032 coin cell case (right panel). 
Fig. 4.6 Schematic of a coin cell structure with Cu-grown SLG or Ni- 118 
grown MLG. Bilayer and trilayer graphene coin cells were 
fabricated by transferring monolayer graphene repeatedly. 
Fig. 4.7 Optical micrographs of (a) Cu-grown SLG and (b) Ni-grown 120 
MLG on SiO2/Si substrate. White dashed lines indicate wrinkles. 
Some portion of thicker graphene is indicated by arrows. (c) 
Schematic of (i) SLG with a well defined basal plane and (ii) 
edge plane enriched MLG. (d) Micro-Raman spectra of SLG and 
MLG. Confocal Raman mapping of D/G intensity ratio of (e) 
XII 
 
SLG and (f) MLG from squared positions of (a) and (b). The 
contrast is normalized to 0.4 to visualize the defect distribution 
for both images. (g) Wavelength-dependent transmittance 
(values are provided at a wavelength of 550 nm) and (h) optical 
photographs of different number of graphene layers on PET 
substrate. 
Fig. 4.8 (a) Cyclic voltammograms of different number of graphene 123 
layers samples at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s. SUS-related redox 
reaction peaks (SO, SR) and lithium intercalation/deintercalation 
st
related peaks (LiIn/LiDe) are marked in the figure. (b) 1  and (c) 
nd
2  galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles of different number 
2
of graphene layers at a current density of 5 µA/cm . (d) The 
related layer-dependent capacities. Two regimes of corrosion-
dominant and lithiation-dominant are indicated. 
nd
Fig. 4.9 Cyclic voltammograms at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s (a) and 2  125 
galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles at a current density of 5 
2
µA/cm  (b) of bare CR2032 coin cell case and foil SUS 316. 
Fig. 4.10 AC impedance spectra obtained by applying a sine wave with an 128 
amplitude of 10 mV over a frequency range from 100 kHz to 10 
mHz. The inset shows impedance at higher frequency region to 
demonstrate charge transfer resistance. 
Fig. 4.11 Theoretically estimated capacity based on LiC6 intercalation. No 130 
absorption of Li ions occurs at monolayer graphene. 
Fig. 4.12 (a) Raman spectra, (b) cyclic voltammograms at a scan rate of 134 
0.1 mV/s, and (c) 2nd galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles at 
2
a current density of 5 A/cm  for monolayer graphene treated by 
Ar plasma with different plasma powers (15 W and 100 W). (d) 
nd
Capacity of 2  charge as a functional of number of graphene 
XIII 
 
layers under different Ar plasma powers. Absolute slopes 
according to different plasma powers and critical layer thickness 
(lc) are indicated in the figure. (e) Schematics of proposed Li 
diffusion mechanism through defects on the basal plane with 
different defect population. Broad down arrows indicate Li ion 
diffusion through defect sites of basal plane. Red glows 
represent steric hindrance for Li ion diffusion formed by the 
accumulated Li ions or functional groups. The inset in the right 
indicates the relative magnitude of diffusion coefficient. (f) 
Relationship of D/G ratio with the extracted slope from (d). 
Fig. 4.13 Side and top views of atomic configurations (top panel), 137 
isosurface images of electrostatic potential (second panel), bond 
 
 lengths and local charge distributions at the barrier states (third 
 
panel), and the diffusion barrier profiles of Li (bottom panel) 
 
 through (a) graphene hexagonal site (H site), (b) Stone-Wales 
 
(SW) defect (c) monovacancy (V1), and (d) divacancy (V2). 
 
 3Isovalue for rendering isosurfaces is 0.25 e/Å . The insets in the 
 
third panel show isosurface image of electrostatic potential for 
 
 each corresponding structure without Li ion. Bond lengths 
 
(yellow color) and electrostatic potential charges (white color) 
 
 are in units of Å and electrons, respectively. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
XIV 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The issue of the sustainability of energy supply has attracted worldwide 
concern due to the crisis in rapid depletion of fossil energy resources along with 
serious environmental pollution issues. Over the past several decades, 
tremendous efforts have been made in developing alternative technologies to 
harvest and store sustainable clean energy. Thanks to the development of 
nanoscience and nanotechnology, clean energy technologies are progressing 
impressively which makes them more practical and price competitive with fossil 
fuels. Clean energy technology covers production, storage, and conversion. 
Researches on energy production from renewable natural resources include solar 
energy conversion, wind, geothermal and hydraulic energy and involve often 
heavy engineering works. Our main concern using nanoscience from basic 
science point of view is energy storage. Among all different kinds of energy 
storage systems, rechargeable lithium-ion battery (LIB) is one of the greatest 
successes of modern material electrochemistry. It has drawn the most attention 
not only because of its higher energy density and longer cycle life compared to 
any existing battery systems but also its lightweight and compact which benefit 
the application in hybrid vehicles and portable electronics [1]. 
 
LIB consists of an anode (negative electrode) and a cathode (positive 
electrode). These two electrodes are capable of reversibly hosting lithium in ionic 
1 
 
form. Common candidates for the cathode are lithiated metal oxides and 
carbonaceous materials for the anode. Prior to the discovery of graphite anode 
materials, lithium metal had been used. However, possibility of thermal runaway 
caused by the internal shorts triggered by the formation of lithium dendrites has 
been a long standing issue [2]. The use of graphite as an anode material for 
intercalating lithium ions in rechargeable LIB was then proposed [3]. It is still the 
main stream of anode material for commercial LIB up to now due to its well 
defined layered structure for lithium intercalation, low operating potential, and 
remarkable interfacial stability [4]. Unfortunately, the intercalation capacity of 
lithium ions in graphite is limited to 372 mAh/g with LiC6 stoichiometry. 
Numerous efforts have been made to increase this value by modifying the 
crystallinity, the microstructure, and the micromorphology of the carbonaceous 
material [5-8]. These structural parameters play a crucial part in determining and 
optimizing the electrochemical performance of carbon anodes. 
 
The exploration of nanomaterials and nanocomposites provides us new 
opportunities to improve the anode performance of LIB. Compared to 
micrometer-scaled carbon material, nanostructured carbon exhibits differences 
not only in dimensionality and morphology, but also in the distribution of 
chemical bonding which allows the mixtures of local electronic structures 
2 3 
between sp  and sp [9] Therefore, carrier transport properties are different from 
classic carbon material when nanometer-scaled carbon is in contact with 
2 
 
reactants. Nanostructured carbon materials with high accessible surface areas and 
short diffusion time for lithium ions open new perspectives for high energy 
density and high power density LIB.  
 
In order to fully develop the potential of nanoscaled carbon as an anode for 
LIB, a systematical study is needed. In this thesis work, after a brief overview of 
LIB (chapter one), fundamentals that provide the basic idea of operation 
mechanism in LIB, types of conventional carbon anode materials, and their 
anode performance will be reviewed in chapter two. Chapter three will mainly 
focus on studying the one dimensional carbon nanofiber anode material. An easy 
fabrication process, electrospinning, which is a good for mass production is 
introduced for raw carbon nanofiber synthesis. In order to improve the 
performance of raw carbon nanofiber, Si, a high Li storage material, is 
incorporated through electrochemical deposition method. Using nanoscaled 
carbon material for fundamental research of lithium ion diffusion pathway is 
given in chapter four. Here, two dimensional graphene synthesized by chemical 
vapor deposition is chosen to study the nature of Li ion diffusion since it is the 
basic building block of graphite which is the most common material for anode. 
 
Finally, a general conclusion and perspectives are given. 
 
 
3 
 
Bibliography of Introduction 
[1] J. M. Tarascon, M. Armand, Nature 2001, 414, 359.  
[2] F. Orsini, et al., J. Power Source 1999, 81, 918. 
[3] M. Armand, P. Touzain, Materials Science and Engineering 1977, 31, 
319. 
[4] M. Winter, O. J. Besenhard, E. M. Spahr, P. Novák, Adv. Mater. 1998, 
10, 725. 
[5] M. Winter, J. O. Besenhard, Lithium Ion Battery: Fundamentals and 
Performance 1998 (Eds.: M. Wahihara, O. Yamamoto), Wiley-VCH, 
Weinheim. 
[6] A. Mabuchi, K. Tokumitsu, H. Fujimoto, T. Kasuh, J. Electrochem. Soc. 
1995, 142, 1041. 
[7] W. Ruland, J. Appl. Phys. 1967, 38, 3585. 
[8] M. Endo, C. Kim, K. Nishimura, T. Fujino, K. Miyashita, Carbon 2000, 
38, 183. 
[9] D. S. Su, R. Schlögl, ChemSusChem, 2010, 3, 136. 
  
  
  
4 
 
 Outline of Chapter One 
 
Overview of Rechargeable Lithium Ion Battery 
 
 
1.1   Electrochemical Energy Storage Systems 6 
1.2  Rechargeable Lithium Based Battery 8 
1.3  Rechargeable Lithium Ion Battery 11 
Bibliography of Chapter 1 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
CHAPTER ONE 
Overview of Rechargeable Lithium Ion Battery  
1.1 Electrochemical Energy Storage Systems 
Systems for electrochemical energy storage convert chemical energy into 
electrical energy. Electrochemical energy storage devices basically include 
batteries, fuel cells, and electrochemical capacitors (ECs). Although the 
mechanisms for energy storage and conversion are different, similarities do exist 
among these three systems. Common features are that batteries, fuel cells, and 
ECs consist of two electrodes which in contact with electrolyte. Requirements 
upon electron and ion conduction in electrodes and electrolyte are valid for all 
three systems. Furthermore, electron and ion transport are separated during the 
charge/discharge processes which take place at the phase boundary of the 
electrode/electrolyte interface [1]. The main difference between battery, fuel cell 
and ECs is the way of elec trical energy generation. In batteries and fuel cells, 
electrical energy is produced by conversion of chemical energy via redox 
reactions (Faradic process) at the anode and cathode. On the other hand, in ECs, 
energy may not be delivered via redox reactions but rather via the formation of 
electrical double layers (non-Faradic process) by orientation of electrolyte ions at 
the electrode/electrolyte interface, and thus the use of the terms anode and 
cathode may not be appropriate [2].  
 
6 
 
In order to value the energy contents of a system, terms of “energy density” 
(or “specific energy”) and “power density” (or “specific power”) are used. 
“Energy density” is expressed in watt-hours per liter (Wh/L) [or in watt-hours per 
kilogram (Wh/kg)] and “power density” is expressed in watt per liter (W/L) [or 
in watt per kilogram (W/kg)] [2]. To compare the performance of various energy 
storage devices, a reprehensive chart known as the Ragone plot was developed. 
In such a plot, the values of specific energy (in Wh/kg) are plotted versus specific 
power [3], as shown in Figure 1.1. It is clear to see that fuel cell can be 
considered as high energy density system and supercapacitor as high power 
density system. However, battery has intermediate energy and power 
characteristics. Compared to fuel cells and supercapacitors, batteries have 
realized the biggest application markets so far. Whereas supercapacitors have 
found its own position as memory protection in several electronic devices and 
instantaneous power backup systems, fuel cells are basically still in the 
development stage [1]. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
Figure 1.1. Ragone plot showing energy density vs. power density 
for various energy storage devices. Cited and modified from Ref. [3]. 
 
1.2 Rechargeable Lithium Based Battery 
There are two types of batteries: primary batteries that are designed to be 
used once and discarded, and secondary batteries that are designed to be 
recharged and used multiple times. Therefore, they are also named as disposable 
batteries and rechargeable batteries. Common types of disposable batteries such 
as zinc–carbon battery cannot be reliably recharged, since the chemical reactions 
are not easily reversible and active materials cannot recover to the original forms 
[4]. On the other hand, electrochemical reactions in rechargeable batteries such as 
nickel-cobalt battery and lithium-based batteries are electrically reversible.  
 
Figure 1.2. Comparison of the different battery technologies in terms 
8 
 
of volumetric and gravimetric energy density. Cited from Ref. [5]. 
 
Considering the requirements of modern society with popular portable 
electronics, rechargeable batteries are more favorable nowadays. The 
development of rechargeable batteries is a long story. To this date, among various 
existing technologies, such as lead-acid, Ni-Cd, nickel-metal hydride (Ni-MeH), 
Li-based batteries draw the most attention because of their high energy density 
and possibility of compact-flexible design, as indicated in Figure 1.2. Combining 
the profound mechanism study and the involvement of advanced materials, they 
have become the most dominant power source for cell phones, digital cameras, 
laptops etc. According to the recent market investigation, the share of worldwide 
sales for Ni–Cd and Ni–MeH batteries are 23 and 14%. However, Li-ion portable 
batteries take up to 63% of the battery market [5]. 
     
The starting point of incorporating lithium metal in battery technology is the 
fact that lithium is the most electropositive (–3.04 V Vs standard hydrogen 
electrode) as well as the lightest (specific gravity ρ= –30.53 g cm ) metal which 
benefits the design of high energy density system [5]. Lithium metal as an anode 
was firstly reported in 1970 where TiS2 was used as a cathode [6-8]. However, 
Li-metal cell encountered many problems. One of shortcomings is redeposition 
of lithium as a form of metal and uneven dendrite formation during subsequent 
charge/discharge cycle, as shown in Figure. 1.3a. This could lead to a short 
9 
 
circuit problem and thus explosion issues [9]. Therefore, even though Li-metal 
based cells exhibit the highest energy density as shown in Figure 1.2, their 
practical application is limited. Upon the inspiration of the development on the 
positive electrode which used LixMO2 (where M is Co, Ni or Mn) as a host 
material for Li ions [10-11], the Li metal is not necessarily required, therefore a 
concept so-called Li-ion or rocking-chair battery which introduced a second 
host material to replace Li metal was emerged to solve the safety issues in 
rechargeable Li-metal battery, as shown in Figure 1.3b [12-15].  
 
Figure 1.3. Schematic representation of lithium batteries. a, 
10 
 
Rechargeable lithium-metal battery, dendrite formation was shown 
in the negative electrode. b, Rechargeable lithium-ion battery. 
Cited from Ref. [5]. 
 
1.3 Rechargeable Lithium Ion Battery 
The configuration of Li-ion battery electrodes is two types of lithium host 
materials (Figure 1.3b). The storage capacity of the battery is given by the 
amount of Li that can be stored reversibly in these two electrodes. To be clear, for 
rechargeable Li-metal batteries, the positive host electrode does not need to be 
lithiated before cell assembly since the use of metallic Li as the negative 
electrode. In contrast, for Li-ion batteries, the positive host electrode usually acts 
as a source of Li since the common negative electrode such as carbon, Si, 
transition metal oxide contains no Li. Thus, air-stable Li-based intercalation 
compounds in positive electrode are required to complete the cell assembly.  
 
The structural stability of the host material during insertion and de-insertion 
of Li ions is a critical factor since it determines the long term stability of Li-ion 
battery. Generally, anode materials can be classified into three categories 
according to the Li storage mechanisms besides graphite: alloying, insertion, 
conversion. Most of these materials show different disadvantages compared to 
graphite, as indicated in Figure 1.4. In the case of Li alloy (Si, Sn, Ge, Al, Pb 
etc) and conversion-based electrodes (CoO, Fe2O3 etc), the volume change 
11 
 
between the Li-containing states and the corresponding lithium-free states is very 
large due to the mechanical stresses generated during charge/discharge cycles. 
Therefore, the cracks are easily produced and thus the electrodes collapse. So the 
cycle life is very much limited. In the case of insertion based materials (TiO2, 
MoO2 etc), rather low capacity is the key factor needed to be improved. In 
contrast, materials with two dimensional layered structure such as carbonaceous 
+
materials, show good cycling behavior since this kind of Li  insertion materials 
exhibits low mechanical strain with small volume changes [2, 5, 12-15]. At the 
present time, research and development activities are mainly focused on such 
highly reversible carbonaceous materials. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.4. Current issues remaining in different types of anode 
materials.  
 
 
12 
 
Bibliography of Chapter 1 
 
[1] M. Winter, R. J. Brodd, Chem. Rev 2004, 104, 4245. 
[2] B. E. Conway, Electrochemical Supercapacitors: Scientific Fundamentals 
and Technological Applications 1999. 
[3] The plot shown here is based on the data provided by Maxwell 
Technologies: http://www.maxwell.com. 
[4] Alkaline Manganese Dioxide Handbook and Application Manual, 2008. 
[5] J. M. Tarascon, M. Armand, Nature 2001, 414, 359. 
[6] T. Ikeda, H. Tamura, Proc. Manganese Dioxide Symp. 1975, Vol. 1, (IC 
sample Office, Cleveland, OH). 
[7] M. S. Whittingham, Science 1976, 192, 1226. 
[8] M. S. Whittingham, US Patent 4009052. 
[9] F. Orsini, et al., J. Power Sources 1999, 81, 918. 
[10] K. Mizushima, P. C. Jones, P. J. Wiseman, J. B. Goodenough, Mat. Res. 
Bull.1980, 15, 783. 
[11] M. M. Thackeray, W. I. F. David, P. G. Bruce, J. B. Goodenough, Mat. 
Res. Bull. 1983, 18, 461. 
[12] D. W. Murphy, F. J. DiSalvo, J. N. Carides, J. V. Waszczak, Mat. Res. 
Bull. 1978, 13, 1395. 
[13] M. Lazzari, B. Scrosati, J. Electrochem. Soc.1980, 127, 773. 
[14] M. Mohri, et al., J. Power Sources 1989, 26, 545. 
[15] J. R. Dahn, U. V. Sacken, M. W. Juzkow, H. Al-Janaby, J. Electrochem. 
13 
 
Soc. 1991, 138, 2207. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
 Outline of Chapter Two 
 
Carbonaceous Materials as an Anode of Li-Ion Battery 
 
2.1   Operation Mechanism of Li-Ion Battery 16 
2.2  Classification of Carbonaceous Materials 21 
2.2.1  Graphitic Carbon 21 
2.2.2 Non-graphitic Carbon 22 
2.3   Lithium Intercalation into Carbonaceous Materials 24 
2.3.1 Lithium Intercalation into Graphitic Carbon Materials 24 
2.3.1-1  Description 24 
2.3.1-2  Charge/Discharge Profile of Graphitic Carbon Materials 26 
2.3.2  Lithium Intercalation into Non-graphitic Carbon Materials 29 
2.3.2-1  Low Specific Charge Carbon 29 
2.3.2-2  High Specific Charge Carbon 31 
2.4  Summary of Chapter Two 36 
Bibliography of Chapter 2 38 
 
15 
 
CHAPTER TWO 
Carbonaceous Materials as an Anode of Li-Ion Battery 
2.1 Operation Mechanism of Li-Ion Battery 
Carbon as one of the most abundant elements on earth plays a critical role in 
the development of human society. For thousands of years, human history is 
closely associated with the struggle to extract and utilize the power from carbon 
materials. Carbonaceous materials have been adopted in various electrochemical 
energy storage systems previously. This was motivated by the good electrical 
2
conductance of sp -hybridized solid carbon, its high chemical stability, and its 
enormous adaptability to different interface processes [1]. Li-ion battery is one 
typical example to utilize the carbonaceous materials in energy storage devices. 
Commercialized LIB usually consists of layered LiCoO2 as a cathode and 
carbonaceous materials as an anode. These two electrodes are usually separated 
by a porous polymer membrane and the ionic transport within the cell is ensured 
by an aprotic organic electrolyte which is a good ionic conductor and electronic 
insulator [2]. Nowadays, the most common electrolyte is a solution of LiPF6 in a 
mixture of alkyl carbonates such as ethylene carbonate, diethyl carbonate, and 
dimethyl carbonate which provides high-permittivity and low-viscosity.  
 
In common Li-ion battery cells, during the charging process, Li ions are 
extracted from the LiCoO2 electrode (cathode) and simultaneously 
16 
 
inserted/intercalated into the carbon electrode (anode) by forming a 
lithium/carbon intercalation compound indicated as LixCn, coupled with 
negatively charged electrons to keep overall charge neutrality, as shown on the 
left side of Figure 2.1. During the discharging process, Li ions are reversibly 
extracted/deintercalated from the negative electrode and simultaneously inserted 
into the positive electrode, as shown on the right side of Figure 2.1. This 
charge/discharge process can be summarized by the typical chemical equations as 
shown below [3]: 
 
Figure. 2.1. Schematic illustration of detailed charge/discharge 
process in Li-ion battery. 
 
Positive Electrode:   LiCoO2 
+ - 
 Li1-x CoO2 + xLi  + xe
+ -  
Negative Electrode:  Cn + xLi  + xe   LixCn
           Overall:            LiCoO2+ Cn  Li1-xCoO2 + LixCn 
17 
 
Compared to ECs whose electrodes are composed of same materials which 
therefore exhibit the same potential, an inherent potential difference exists 
between LiCoO2 and carbonaceous material in LIB, as simply indicated in 
Figure 2.2. The original potentials of LiCoO2 and carbon materials are usually ~ 
+
4 V and ~ 0.2-0.5 V (depending on types of carbon) vs. Li/Li , respectively [2,4]. 
+
During the charge process, the cathode will release Li  under the influence of 
external power and the potential of cathode will increase to 4.2 V, whereas the 
+
anode potential will decrease to approximately 0.01 V vs. Li/Li  upon Li ion 
insertion, thus delivering an output voltage of nearly 4 V to the external load. 
Here, the cut off voltage of LiCoO2 and graphite is usually limited to 4.2 
(corresponding to a removal of 0.5 mol Li) and 0.01 V in order to maintain the 
structural stability [5]. On the other hand, during the spontaneous discharge 
process, Li0.5CoO2 needs to go back to its original potential state which is more 
energetically stable therefore Li ions go back to Li0.5CoO2 and the electrode 
potential goes back to the original state, and the system is thus ready for the next 
charge process.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
Figure 2.2. Potential profile of anode and cathode during 
charge/discharge. 
 
The discovery of different carbon allotropes associated with nanoscience 
and nanotechnology provided us a room to further improve the performance of 
anode material. Therefore, carbonaceous material used as an anode in LIB is 
chosen to be the main focus in this work. Before moving to the details, we 
summarize one more time the advantages of carbon-based anode material. 
Compared to transition-metal oxides and chalcogenides, carbonaceous materials 
such as graphite and hard carbons are more preferable not only because of (1) the 
unstable inherent nature of the transition-metal oxides and chalcogenides 
materials as mentioned at the end of Chapter 1 and (2) the dimensional stability 
and good conductivity of carbonaceous materials, but also (3) the lowest 
+
potential versus Li/Li  which gives higher output cell voltage compared to other 
composite alloys, three dimensional metal oxides and so on. For instance, the 
+
potential of many Li alloys is ~0.3 to ~1.0 V vs. Li/Li  whereas it is only ~0.1 V 
+
vs. Li/Li  for graphite, as indicated in Figure 2.3 [6]. 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.3. Charge curves of different metals (M) with respect to 
highly oriented turbostratic pitch carbon fibers. Cited from Ref. [6].  
 
One good carbonaceous anode material needs to fulfill high capacity, long 
cycle life, fast charge etc. in addition to high energy/power density, good 
conductivity and stability, as mentioned above. A charge/discharge curve can be 
used as one of the most straightforward tools to demonstrate the storage 
capability, cyclic ability, rate of charge/discharge. The charge/discharge curve 
(capacity-voltage curve) is converted from a voltage-time profile with one or 
several constant current densities that are fixed in advance. The capacity (mAh) 
therefore equals to the current (mA) multiply the time (h). The charge/discharge 
curve usually exhibits very different features according to the structure of carbon 
materials. Thus, in order to further improve the performance of carbonaceous 
anode and to assist in explaining the phenomenon of nanocarbon-based anode 
later, the classification of carbon materials upon the structure and also their 
20 
 
associated charge/discharge profiles need to be elaborated first. The related topics 
are explained in detail in the following section. 
 
2.2 Classification of Carbonaceous Materials 
Carbonaceous materials that are capable of reversible lithium reaction can 
be roughly classified into two categories according to their structures: graphitic 
and non-graphitic (disordered) carbon. The non-graphitic carbon can be further 
categorized into soft carbon/hard carbon upon annealing and high specific charge 
carbon/low specific charge carbon according to the capability of reversible 
lithium storage. Charge/discharge behaviors of each type of carbon are presented 
and analyzed in detail in the following context.  
 
2.2.1 Graphitic Carbon 
Graphitic carbon is a well-defined layered structure. Normally, a number of 
structural defects could appear in graphitic carbon. The term of “graphite” was 
derived from crystallographic point of view which should be only applied to 
carbons whose layered lattice structure follows a perfect stacking order of 
graphene layers. That is to say it contains the layer stacking order of either the 
common AB (hexagonal graphite, Figure 2.4 and Figure 2.5a) or the rather rare 
ABC (rhombohedral graphite). However, since the transformation energy from 
AB stacking to ABC stacking (and vice versa) is rather small, perfectly stacked 
graphite crystals are not readily available. Therefore the term of “graphite” is 
21 
 
often used regardless of well-defined stacking order [7]. The terms of natural 
graphite, artificial graphite, and pyrolytic graphite are commonly used, although 
the materials are polycrystalline [8]. The actual structure of carbonaceous 
materials typically deviates more or less from the ideal graphite structure. 
Materials consisting of aggregates of graphite crystallites are called graphites as 
well. 
Figure 2.4. Left: Schematics of the crystal structure of hexagonal 
graphite with an AB stacking order. Right: view perpendicular to the 
basal plane of graphite. Edges can be subdivided into arm-chair and 
zigzag faces. Cited from Ref. [7]. 
 
2.2.2 Non-Graphitic Carbon 
Non-graphitic (disordered) carbonaceous materials consist of carbon atoms 
that are mainly arranged in a planar hexagonal network but no crystallographic 
order in the c-direction compared to graphite, as shown in Figure 2.5c [7,9]. The 
22 
 
structure of those carbons is characterized by amorphous areas embedded and 
cross-linked in the network. Non-graphitic carbons are mostly prepared by 
pyrolysis of organic polymer or hydrocarbon precursors at temperature below 
~1500°C [10-12].  
      (a) graphite      (b) graphitizable carbon   (c) non-graphitizable carbon 
Figure 2.5. Schematic indications of (a) graphite and (b) non-
graphitic (disordered) carbonaceous material. 
 
Heat treatment of most non-graphitic carbons (from ~1500 to ~3000°C) 
allows us to further classify non-graphitic carbon into two sub-categories: soft 
carbon and hard carbon. In the case of soft carbons, crosslinking between the 
carbon layers is weak and therefore the layers are mobile enough to form 
graphite-like crystallites and develop the graphite structure continuously during 
the heating process, as shown in Figure 2.5b [9]. In the case of hard carbons, 
since the carbon layers are immobilized by crosslinking, they show no real 
development of the graphite structure even at temperatures of 2500 ~ 3000 °C 
[10]. The representative figure is shown in Figure 2.5c. 
23 
 
2.3 Lithium Intercalation into Carbonaceous Materials 
2.3.1 Lithium Intercalation into Graphitic Carbon Materials 
2.3.1-1 Description 
Lithium-intercalated graphitic carbon compounds (GICs) are known with 
the configuration LixCn. It is well known that Li intercalation reaction occurs 
only at the edge plane of graphite. Through the basal plane, intercalation is 
possible only at defect sites [13-16]. The maximum lithium content for highly 
crystalline graphitic carbons is one Li guest atom per six carbon host atoms (i.e. 
n  6 in LiCn or x  1 in LixC6) at ambient pressure [17]. That is to say it follo
ws the equation as below:  
 
+ -
6 C + x Li  +x e   LixC6, where, x = 1 in LixC6 (the maximum Li conte
nt). 
 
In LiC6, lithium avoids to occupy the nearest neighbor sites due to the 
Columbic repulsive force of Li, as shown in Figure 2.6. Two major changes in 
graphite structure point of view occur when Li intercalats into graphite layers: (1) 
the stacking order of the carbon layers (i.e. graphene layers) shifts to AA stacking, 
see Figure 2.6a and Figure 2.6c. (2) The interlayer distance between the 
graphene layers increases moderately (10.3% has been calculated for LiC6) due 
to the lithium intercalation, as indicated in the right panel in Figure 2.6a [18-21]. 
24 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.6. Structure indications of LiC6. (a) Left: schematic 
drawing showing the AA layer stacking sequence with Li 
intercalation. Right: simplified representation. (b) Perpendicular 
view to the basal plane of LiC6. (c) Enlarged schematic of AA 
stacking order. Cited and modified from Ref. [20-21]. 
 
An important feature of Li intercalation into graphite is the “stage 
formation”. Stage formation means a stepwise formation of a periodic pattern of 
unoccupied graphitic layer gaps at low concentrations of Li [23-31]. This 
stepwise process can be described by the stage index, s (s = I, II, III, IV) which is 
equal to the number of graphene layers between two nearest guest layers as 
shown in Figure 2.7. Note that stage IV is not indicated in the figure because Li 
concentration is too low in graphene layers. It is also known as a dilute stage 
25 
 
when s > IV [32]. Two factors determine the formation of stages during Li 
intercalation into graphite i) the energy required to expand van der Waals gap 
between two graphene layers [31,33] and ii) the repulsive interactions between 
guest species. Therefore, compared to a random distribution of Li in the graphitic 
layers during charge process, Li ions prefer to occupy van der Waals gaps with 
high density first to reach an energetically stable state [7]. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     Figure 2.7. Schematic indication of stage formation during Li ion      
     intercalation into graphite layers. 
 
2.3.1-2 Charge/Discharge Profile of Graphitic Carbon Materials 
Stage formation as mentioned above is one of the most important 
characteristic of charge profile for graphitic carbon. It can be easily observed in 
the form of plateaus by constant current measurement (i.e. in charge/discharge 
curve), as indicated in Figure 2.8. The associated stages are marked in bottom 
26 
 
panel of the figure. The plateaus indicate the coexistence of two phases [24,34]. 
The formation of stages II, IIL (a transition stage of stage II and stage III), III, 
and IV have been identified from experimental electrochemical curves [18,35,37-
40] and confirmed by X-ray diffraction and Raman spectroscopy [17,25,27-
28,35-38]. A schematic potential / composition curve for galvanostatic reduction 
of graphite to LiC6 is shown in the bottom panel in Figure 2.8.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.8. Constant current charge/discharge curves of the graphite 
(Timrex KS 44, Cirr is the irreversible specific charge, and Crev is the 
reversible specific charge). Modified and replotted from Ref. [7]. 
27 
 
+
Ideally, Li  intercalation into carbons should be fully reversible and the 
maximum Li storage capacity should not exceed 372 mAh/g according to LiC6 
configuration. However, the charge accumulated in the first cycle usually larger 
than the maximum theoretical specific capacity, as shown in Figure 2.8. 
Compared to the first charge, the first discharge capacity is much smaller. The 
excess charge generated in the first cycle which cannot be recovered can be 
ascribed to a film formation of the solid electrolyte interface (SEI) which is 
+
caused by the decomposition of the Li  containing electrolyte, such as propylene 
carbonate and ethylene carbonate [41-46]. The decomposition of electrolyte 
+
usually takes place at less than 1 V vs. Li/Li  and appears as the first plateau in 
the charge curve, as indicated in Figure 2.8 [47]. The advantage of the SEI 
formation is that it can prevent further electrolyte decomposition and create a 
rather stable state for the surface of GIC [48-53]. On the other hand, the 
+
formation of SEI is a charge-consuming side reaction in the first few Li  
st
intercalation/deintercalation cycles, especially in the 1  charge cycle. 
Considering that the positive electrode is responsible to provide the Li ion in LIB, 
the charge and lithium losses are detrimental to the specific energy of the whole 
cell and have to be minimized. Because of the irreversible consumption of 
lithium and electrolyte, a corresponding charge loss exists, so called “irreversible 
specific charge” as indicated in Figure 2.8. The reversible lithium intercalation is 
called “reversible specific charge”.  
 
28 
 
2.3.2 Lithium Intercalation into Non-Graphitic Carbon Materials 
According to the capability of reversible lithium storage, non-graphitic 
carbons can be further classified into two categories: high specific charge carbon 
and low specific charge carbon.  
 
2.3.2-1 Low Specific Charge Carbon 
(i) Definition 
Low specific charge carbons are carbonaceous materials which incorporate 
only a considerably lower amount of lithium than graphite. That is to say it follo
ws the equation as below:  
 
+ -
6C + xLi  +xe   LixC6, where x = 0.5~0.8 in LixC6 at the maximum 
stoichiometry.  
 
(ii) Examples of Low Specific Charge Carbon 
Cokes [68,77-83] and carbon blacks [81,84-85] are typical disordered 
carbons with low specific charges. During the charge process, Li intercalation-
induced formation of AA stacking is hindered due to the existence of crosslinking 
of carbon sheets as mentioned in chapter 2.1.2. This will eventually affect the 
accommodation of a higher Li amount into graphitic sites and deliver a lower 
specific charge [86-88].  
  
29 
 
Turbostratic carbon [43,86-90] which can also be classified into the category 
of graphitizing/soft carbon is one type of low specific charge carbon. The lower 
amount of Li intercalation than graphite is due to not only the effect of 
crosslinking as mentioned in cokes and carbon blacks, but also larger amount of 
wrinkled and buckled structural segments existing in the structure, and thus 
available lithium intercalation sites is rather low therefore the specific charge is 
lower than graphite [91-92]. 
 
(iii) Charge/Discharge Profile of Low Specific Charge Carbon 
+
Figure 2.9 shows the first Li  intercalation/deintercalation cycle of a coke-
containing electrode. The potential profile of low specific carbon differs 
+
considerably from that of graphite, as the reversible intercalation of Li  begins at 
+
around 1.2 V vs. Li/Li , and the curve slopes without distinguishable plateaus. 
This behavior is a consequence of the disordered structure providing 
electronically and geometrically nonequivalent sites, whereas for a particular 
intercalation stage in highly crystalline graphite, the sites are equivalent [93-94]. 
30 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.9. Constant current charge/discharge curves of a coke (Conoco). 
(Cirr is the irreversible specific charge, Crev the reversible specific charge). 
Cited and redrawn from Ref. [7]. 
 
2.3.2-2 High Specific Charge Carbon 
(i) Definition 
High specific charge carbons can store more lithium than graphite. That is to 
say it follows the equation as below:  
31 
 
+ -
6 C + x Li  +x e   LixC6, where x > 1 in LixC6.  
 
Li storage capacity of high specific charge carbons could vary from 400 
Ah/kg to ~2000 Ah/kg which corresponding to x = ~1.2 to ~5 in LixC6. The 
difference in the capacity depends on the heat treatment temperature, organic 
precursor, and electrolyte. Even though the higher specific capacity (in terms of 
Ah/kg) is desired in LIB, a larger volume of the carbonaceous matrix is usually 
needed to accommodate the excess intercalated Li which indicates lower charge 
density in terms of Ah/L [7].  
 
(ii) Origin of the Excess Charges 
Several different scenarios have been proposed in order to explain 
origin of excess charges. These different models provide the intuitive 
understanding even though some of them are still debatable [54-58]. A few 
well known examples are listed below. Extra capacity can be realized 
through: (1) The formation of Li2 molecules between layers which indicates 
that lithium molecules occupy the nearest neighbor sites in intercalated 
+
carbons [59]. (2) The presence of charged Li  clusters in the cavities [60]. 
(3) The “adsorption” of lithium on both sides of single-layer sheets that are 
arranged like a “falling cards” [61]. All of mechanisms are indicated in 
Figure 2.10.  
32 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.10. a) Storage mechanisms of Li ions in graphite. b) Li 
storage in a form of Li2 covalent molecules. c) Schematic model of Li 
storage in cavities and nanopores. d) Li adsorption on the two sides of 
an isolated graphene sheet. Cited from Ref. [3]. 
 
(iii) Charge/discharge Profile of High Specific Charge Carbon 
For both graphitizing (soft) and non-graphitizing (hard) carbons prepared < 
o
1000 C, the typical charge/discharge profile is shown in Figure 2.11. 
33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
st nd
Figure 2.11. Constant current charge/discharge curves (1  and 2  cycle) of 
a high specific charge carbon material after heat treatment at 700 °C. (Cirr 
is the irreversible specific charge, Crev the reversible specific charge). Cited 
and redrawn from Ref. [7]. 
 
It is clear to see a SEI-related plateau appears at around 0.6V and a high 
specific charge of around 3720 Ah/kg was achieved during the first charge, as 
34 
 
shown in the top panel in Figure 2.11. The special feature of this kind of carbon 
material is that it exhibits a larger voltage hysteresis between charge and 
discharge processes compared to that of graphite (Figure 2.8). To be more 
specific, the second charge/discharge is shown at the bottom of Figure 2.11 
which does not show the effect of SEI. The potential for Li insertion is close to 0 
+
V vs. Li/Li  whereas the one for Li de-insertion is much more positive [54-55,62-
65] in the second charge/discharge process. According to the previous study, it 
has been shown that the extent of hysteresis is proportional to the hydrogen 
content in the carbon since Li is somehow bound near the hydrogen [66-67]. 
 
Since hydrogen can be removed with increasing temperature, the specific 
charges achieved after the removal of hydrogen need to be evaluated. It was 
found that the value of specific charge after high temperature annealing strongly 
depend on the structure of the non-graphitic material [55,65,68-75]. (i) In the 
case of soft carbon, it will deliver a lower value of specific charge (x < ~0.5 in 
LixC6) which is similar to the low specific charge carbon [54,75-76], when heat 
treated at ~1000 °C. And the specific charge again increases when the 
temperature is > 1000 °C [73,74]. (ii) In the case of hard carbon, it can still 
display a specific charge of several hundred Ah/kg when heat-treated at ~1000 °
+
C. But Li inserts at a very low potential of a few millivolts versus Li/Li  and a 
smaller hysteresis is shown in charge/discharge profile. In contrast to soft carbon, 
a drastically reduction of specific charge is observed when the temperature is > 
35 
 
1000 °C [72,76].  
 
Although the high specific charge carbons show much higher specific 
capacity than graphite, they have some serious drawbacks such as higher 
irreversible specific charges, larger hysteresis and poorer cycling performance 
than graphite [54-55,62,95-96,98,100-101,103-104]. Although the cycling 
performance of non-graphitizing (hard) carbons heat-treated at ~1000 °C is 
reasonable and almost no hysteresis occurs, the end of the charge potential of the 
carbons is very close to metallic lithium [62,75,102]. Under such a charging 
regime, lithium deposition occurs, which will induce safety issue like Li-metal 
battery [7]. 
 
2.4 Summary of Chapter Two 
The operation mechanism of Li-ion battery and the charge/discharge 
behavior based on different types of carbonaceous materials were generally 
reviewed in this chapter. This kind of information provides fundamental 
knowledge to characterize and understand the anodic behavior of nanoscaled 
carbon materials which will be covered in Chapter 3. 
 
Based on this chapter, it is clear to see that there are so many unsolved 
issues related to carbonaceous materials. In the case of graphite, it exhibits good 
cyclic performance and structure stability but the capacity is limited. On the 
36 
 
contrary, in the case of high specific carbon, the capacity is higher than that of 
graphite but the long time stability and safety issues remain unsolved.  
 
Although the current understanding of the origins of excess charge is limited, 
it is clear that numerous factors such as surface area, crystallinity, defect 
population, basal/edge plane effects and so on could affect the storage capacity. 
Compared to graphite, the analysis of non-graphitic carbon is more complicated 
since so many unpredictable factors exist. Ahead of understanding of Li storage 
mechanisms and the realization of high capacity anode materials, one preliminary 
issue still remains unclear, that is the Li diffusion pathway in carbonaceous 
materials. Therefore, further understanding of Li diffusion pathway through 
graphene plane and the role of defects in Li diffusion is highly required to 
provide more information to reveal the mystery of Li-C system. In order to 
improve the limited capacity of graphite and also to overcome various problems 
in non-graphitic carbons, incorporation of a second material which contains 
higher Li storage capacity on rather stable carbon matrix could be an alternative 
way to satisfy the requirements on anode part. The related issues will be further 
discussed in Chapter 4.  
 
 
 
37 
 
Bibliography of Chapter Two 
[1] S. L. Candelaria, Y. Y. Shao, W. Zhou, X. L. Li, J. Xiao, J. G. Zhang, Y. 
Wang, J. Liu, J. H. Li, G. Z. Cao, Nano Energy 2012, 1,195. 
[2] J. M. Tarascon, M. Armand, Nature 2001, 414, 359. 
[3] D. S. Su, R. Schlögl, ChemSusChem 2010, 3, 136. 
[4] B. Xu, D. Qian, Z. Wang, Y. Meng, Materials Science and Engineering 
R 2012, 73, 51.. 
[5] T. Ohzuku, A. Ueda, N. Nagayama, Y. Iwakoshi, H. Komori, 
Electrochim Acta 1993, 38, 1159. 
[6] J. O. Besenhard, J. Yang, M. Winter, J. Power Sources 1997, 68, 87. 
[7] M. Winter, J. O. Besenhard, M. E. Spahr, P. Novák, Adv. Mater. 1998, 
10, 725 
[8] H. O. Pierson, Handbook of Carbon, Graphite, Diamond and Fullerenes, 
Noyes, Park Ridge, NJ 1993, 43. 
[9] I. Mochida, S. Yoon, W. Qiao, J. Braz. Chem. Soc. 2006, 17 (6), 1059. 
[10] R. E. Franklin, Proc. R. Soc. London A 1951, 209, 196.. 
[11] K. Kinoshita, Carbon: Electrochemical and Physicochemical Properties 
1987 Wiley, New York.. 
[12] K. Inada, K. Ikeda, Y. Sato, A. Itsubo, M. Miyabashi, H. Yui, in Primary 
and Secondary Ambient Temperature Lithium Batteries (Eds: J.-P. 
Gabano, Z. Takehara, P. Bro), Electrochemical Society, Pennington, NJ 
1988, 88-6, 530. 
[13] T. Tran, K. Kinoshita, J. Electroanal. Chem. 1995, 386, 221. 
[14] K. Persson, A. V. Sethuraman, J. L. Hardwick, Y. Hinuma, S. Y. Meng,   
38 
 
A. Ven, V. Srinivasan, R. Kostecki, G. Ceder, Phys. Chem. Lett. 2010, 1,  
1176. 
[15] T. Placke, V. Siozios, R. Schmitz, S. F. Lux, P. Bieker, C. Colle, H.-W. 
Meyer, S. Passerini, M. Winter, J. Power Sources 2012, 200, 83. 
[16] B. Jungblut, E. Hoinkis, Phys. Rev. B 1989, 40, 10810. 
[17] T. D. Tran, K. Kinoshita, J. Electroanal. Chem. 1995, 386, 22. 
[18] D. Billaud, E. McRae, A. Hérold, Mater. Res. Bull. 1979, 14, 857. 
[19] X. Y. Song, K. Kinoshita, T. D. Tran, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1996, 143, 
L120. 
[20] H. H. Lee, C. C. Wan, Y. Y. Wang, Journal of Power Sources 2003,1,7. 
[21] C. Casas, W. Li, Journal of Power Sources 2012, 208, 74. 
[22] E. Jomehzadeh, A. R. Saidi, N. M. Pugno, Physica E: Low-dimensional 
Systems and Nanostructures 2012, 44 (10), 1973. 
[23] J. O. Besenhard, H. P. Fritz, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 1983, 95,950. 
[24] A. Hérold, Chemical Physics of Intercalation 1987 (Eds: A. P. 
Legrand,S. Flandrois), NATO ASI Series B, 172, 3. 
[25] A. Hérold, Bull. Soc. Chim. Fr. 1955, 187, 999. 
[26] W. Rüdorff, U. Hofmann, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 1938, 238, 1. 
[27] N. Daumas, A. Hérold, C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris 1969, 268C, 373. 
[28] N. Daumas, A. Hérold, Bull. Soc. Chim. 1971, 5, 1598. 
[29] L. B. Ebert, Annu. Rev. Mater. Sci. 1976, 6, 181. 
[30] W. Rüdorff, Advances in Inorganic Chemistry and Radiochemistry 1959, 
39 
 
(Eds: H. J. Eméleus, A. G. Sharpe), Academic, New York, 1, 223. 
[31] R. Schlögl, Progress in Intercalation Research 1994 (Eds: W. Müller-
Warmuth, R. Schöllhorn), Kluwer, Dordrecht, The Netherlands, 83. 
[32] D. Billaud, F. X. Henry, M. Lelauraint, P. Willmanns, J. Phys. Chem. 
Solids 1996 , l57(6-8), 775. 
[33] J. O. Besenhard, M. Winter, Proc. of the 2. Ulmer Elektrochemische 
Tage, Ladungsspeicherung in der Doppelschicht 1995 (Ed: W. 
Schmickler), Universitätsverlag Ulm, Germany, 47. 
[34] J. R. Dahn, Phys. Rev. B 1991, 44, 9170. 
[35] J. E. Fisher, Chemical Physics of Intercalation 1987 (Eds: A. P. Legrand, 
S. Flandrois), NATO ASI Series B, 172, 59. 
[36] M. Bagouin, D. Guerard, A. Hérold, C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris 1966, 262C, 
557. 
[37] C. Casas, W. Li, Journal of Power Sources 2012, 208, 74. 
[38] P. Pfluger,V. Geiser, S. Stolz, H.-J. Güntherodt, Synth. Met. 1981, 3, 27. 
[39] D. Billaud, F. X. Henry, P. Willmann, Mater. Res. Bull. 1993, 28, 477. 
[40] D. Billaud, F. X. Henry, P. Willmann, Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst. 1994, 245, 
159. 
[41] J. R. Dahn, A. K. Sleigh, H. Shi, B. M. Way, W. J. Weydanz, J. N. 
Reimers, Q. Zhong, U. von Sacken, Lithium Batteries: New Materials, 
Developments and Perspectives 1994 (Ed: G. Pistoia), Elsevier, 
Amsterdam, 1. 
[42] R. Fong, U. von Sacken, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1990, 137, 
40 
 
2009. 
[43] K. Yokoyama, N. Nagawa, New Sealed Rechargeable Batteries and 
Supercapacitors 1993 (Eds: B. M. Barnett, E. Dowgiallo, G. Halpert, 
Y.Matsuda, Z. Takehara), Electrochemical Society, Pennington, NJ, 
PV93-23, 270. 
[44] R. Kanno, Y. Kawamoto, Y. Takeda, S. Ohashi, N. Imanishi, O. 
Yamamoto, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1992, 139, 3397. 
[45] M. Winter, P. Novµk, A. Monnier, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1998, 145, 428. 
[46] F. Joho, P. Novµk, O. Haas, A. Monnier, F. Fischer, Mol. Cryst. Liq. 
Cryst., in press. 
[47] P. G. Bruce, B. Scrosati, J. M. Tarascon, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 
2930. 
[48] S. Mori, H. Asahina, H. Suzuki, A. Yonei, E. Yasukawa, J. Power 
Sources 1997, 68, 59. 
[49] Y. Ein-Eli, B. Markovsky, D. Aurbach, Y. Carmeli, H. Yamin, S. Luski, 
Electrochim. Acta 1994, 39, 2559. 
[50] D. Aurbach, Y. Ein-Eli, B. Markovsky, A. Zaban, A. Schechter, S. Luski, 
Y. Carmeli, H. Yamin, Rechargeable Lithium and Lithium- Ion Batteries 
1995 (Eds: S. Megahed, B. M. Barnett, L. Xie), Electrochemical Society, 
Pennington, NJ, PV94-28, 26. 
[51] D. Aurbach, Y. Ein-Eli, B. Markovsky, A. Zaban, S. Lusky, Y. Carmeli, 
H. Yamin, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1995, 142, 2882. 
[52] D. Aurbach, Y. Ein-Eli, O. Chusid, Y. Carmeli, M. Babai, H. Yamin, J. 
Electrochem. Soc. 1994, 141, 603. 
41 
 
[53] D. Aurbach, Y. Ein-Eli, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1995, 142, 1746. 
[54] T. Zheng, J. S. Xue, J. R. Dahn, Chem. Mater. 1996, 8, 389. 
[55] T. Zheng, Y. Liu, E. W. Fuller, S. Tseng, U. von Sacken, J. R. Dahn, J. 
Electrochem. Soc. 1995, 142, 2581. 
[56] L. B. Ebert, Carbon 1996, 34, 671. 
[57] J. R. Dahn, T. Zheng, Y. Liu, J. S. Xue, Science 1995, 270, 590. 
[58] P. Zhou, P. Papanek, C. Bindra, R. Lee, J.E. Fischer, J. Power Sources 
1997, 68, 297. 
[59] K. Sato, M. Noguchi, A. Demachi, N. Oki, M. Endo, Science 1994, 264, 
556. 
[60] M. Winter, J. O. Besenhard, Lithium Ion Battery: Fundamentals and 
Performance 1998 (Eds.: M. Wahihara, O. Yamamoto), Wiley-VCH, 
Weinheim. 
[61] T. Zheng, W. Xing, J. R. Dahn, Carbon 1996, 34, 1501.. 
[62] J. S. Xue, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1995, 142, 3668. 
[63] J. R. Dahn, J. S. Xue,W. Xing, A. M.Wilson, A. Gibaud, Extended 
Abstracts of the 8th Int. Mtg. on Lithium Batteries 1996, Nagoya, Japan, 
89. 
[64] T. Zheng, J. R. Dahn, J. Power Sources 1997, 68, 201. 
[65] T. Zheng, W. R. McKinnon, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1996, 143, 
2137. 
[66] S. Wang, Y. Zhang, L. Yang, Q. Liu, Solid State Ionics 1996, 86, 919. 
[67] P. Zhou, P. Papanek, R. Lee, J.E. Fisher, W. A. Kamitakahara, J. 
42 
 
Electrochem. Soc. 1997, 144, 1744. 
[68] A. Satoh, N. Takami, T. Ohsaki, Solid State Ionics 1995, 80, 291. 
[69] A. Satoh, N. Takami, T. Ohsaki, M. Kanda, Rechargeable Lithium 
and Lithium-Ion Batteries 1995 (Eds: S. Megahed, B. M. Barnett, L. 
Xie), Electrochemical Society, Pennington, NJ, PV94-28,143. 
[70] K. Tatsumi, A. Mabuchi, N. Iwashita, H. Sakaebe, H. Shioyama, H. 
Fujimoto, S. Higuchi, Batteries and Fuel Cells for Stationary and 
Electric Vehicle Applications1993 (Eds: A. R. Landgrebe, Z. Takehara) 
Electrochemical Society, Pennington, NJ, PV 93-8, 64. 
[71] A. Mabuchi, H. Fujimoto, K. Tokumitsu, T. Kasuh, J. Electrochem. 
Soc. 1995, 142, 3049. 
[72] K. Tokumitsu, A. Mabuchi, H. Fujimoto, T. Kasuh, Rechargeable 
Lithium and Lithium-Ion Batteries1995 (Eds: S. Megahed, B. M. Barnett, 
L. Xie), Electrochemical Society, Pennington, NJ, PV94-28,136. 
[73] K. Tatsumi, T. Akai, T. Imamura, K. Zaghib, N. Iwashita, S. Higuchi,Y. 
Sawda, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1996, 143, 1923. 
[74] K. Tatsumi, N. Iwashita, H. Sakaebe, H. Shioyama, S. Higuchi, A. 
Mabuchi, H. Fujimoto, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1995, 142, 716. 
[75] Y. Liu, J. S. Xue, T. Zheng, J. R. Dahn, Carbon 1996, 34, 193. 
[76] H, Iomoto, A. Omaru, A. Azuma, Y. Nishi, Lithium Batteries 1993 (Eds: 
S. Surampudi, V. R. Koch), Electrochemical Society, Pennington, NJ, 
PV93-24, 9. 
[77] J. R. Dahn, A. K. Sleigh, H. Shi, J. N. Reimers, Q. Zhong, B. M. Way, 
43 
 
Electrochim. Acta 1993, 38, 1179. 
[78] M. Jean, C. Desnoyer, A. Tranchant, R. Messina, J. Electrochem. Soc. 
1995, 142, 2122. 
[79] R. V. Moshtev, P. Zlatilova, B. Puresheva, V. Manev, J. Power Sources 
1995, 56, 137. 
[80] J. M. Chen, C. Y. Yao, C. H. Cheng, W. M. Hurng, T. H. Kao, J. Power 
Sources 1995, 54, 494. 
[81] A. K. Sleigh, U. von Sacken, Solid State Ionics 1992, 57, 99. 
[82] S. Ma, J. Li, X. Jing, F. Wang, Solid State Ionics 1996, 86-88, 911. 
[83] R. Alcµntara, J. M. JiminØz-Mateos, P. Lavela, J. Morales, J. L. Tirado, 
Mater. Sci. Eng. 1996, B39, 216. 
[84] K. Takei, N. Terada, K. Kumai, T. Iwahori, T. Uwai, T. Miura, J. Power  
Sources 1995, 55, 191. 
 
[85] K. Takei, K. Kumai, Y. Kobayashi, H. Miyashiro, T. Iwahori, T. Uwai, 
T. Miura, J. Power Sources 1995, 54, 171. 
[86] T. Zheng, J. R. Dahn, Synth. Met. 1995, 73, 1. 
[87] T. Zheng, J. R. Dahn, Phys. Rev. B 1996, 53, 3061. 
[88] T. Zheng, J. N. Reimers, J. R. Dahn, Phys. Rev. B 1995, 51, 734. 
[89] B. Di Pietro, M. Patriarca, B. Scrosati, J. Power Sources 1982, 8, 289. 
[90] K. Sawai, Y. Iwakoshi, T. Ohzuku, Solid State Ionics 1994, 69, 273. 
[91] J. O. Besenhard, Progress in Intercalation Research 1994 (Eds: W. 
44 
 
Müller-Warmuth, R. Schöllhorn), Kluwer, Dordrecht, The Netherlands,    
457. 
[92] J. O. Besenhard, Soft Chemistry Routes to New Materials1994 (Eds: J. 
Rouxel, M. Tournoux, R. Brec), Materials Science 152, Trans Tech, 
Aedermannsdorf, Switzerland, 13. 
[93] J. R. Dahn, A. K. Sleigh, H. Shi, B. M. Way, W. J. Weydanz, J. N. 
Reimers, Q. Zhong, U. von Sacken, Lithium Batteries: New Materials, 
Developments and Perspectives1994 (Ed: G. Pistoia), Elsevier, 
Amsterdam, 1. 
[94] J. O. Besenhard, M. Winter, Proc. of the 2. Ulmer Elektrochemische 
Tage, Ladungsspeicherung in der Doppelschicht 1995 (Ed: W. 
Schmickler), Universitätsverlag Ulm, Germany, 47. 
[95] O. Yamamoto, Y. Takeda, N. Imanishi, R. Kanno, New Sealed 
Rechargeable Batteries and Supercapacitors1993 (Eds: B. M. Barnett, E. 
Dowgiallo, G. Halpert, Y. Matsuda, Z. Takehara), Electrochemical 
Society, Pennington, NJ, PV93-23,302. 
[96] H. Fujimoto, A. Mabuchi, K. Tokumitsu, T. Kasuh, J. Power Sources 
1995, 54, 440. 
[97] K. Tokumitsu, A. Mabuchi, H. Fujimoto, T. Kasuh, J. Power Sources 
1995, 54, 444. 
[98] S. Yata, H. Kinoshita, M. Komori, N. Ando, T. Kashiwamura, T. Harada, 
K. Tanaka, T. Yamabe, Synth. Met. 1994, 62, 153. 
 
[99] S. Yata, K. Sakurai, T. Osaki, Y. Inoue, K. Yamaguchi, Synth. Met. 1990, 
45 
 
33, 177. 
[100] S. Yata, Y. Hato, H. Kinoshita, N. Ando, A. Anekawa, T. Hashimoto, M. 
Yamaguchi, K. Tanaka, T. Yamabe, Synth. Met. 1995, 73, 273. 
[101] Y. Mori, T. Iriyama, T. Hashimoto, S. Yamazaki, F. Kawakami, H. 
Shiroki, T. Yamabe, J. Power Sources 1995, 56, 205. 
[102] T. Zheng, Q. Zhong, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1995, 142, L211. 
[103] M. Alamgir, Q. Zuo, K. M. Abraham, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1994, 141, 
L143. 
[104] T. Iijima, K. Suzuki, Y. Matsuda, Synth. Met. 1995, 73, 9. 
 
46 
 
                  Outline of Chapter Three 
 
Silicon-Coated Carbon Nanofiber Mat for Anode of Lithium 
Ion Battery 
 
One Dimensional Carbon Materials as an Anode Material for 51 
3.1   
LIB 
3.1.1  General Introduction of CNFs and CNTs 51 
3.1.2  CNFs and CNTs Using as an Anode Material for LIB 56 
3.1.3  Fabrication Methods of CNFs and CNTs 58 
3.1.3-1  Chemical Vapor Deposition for Both CNFs and CNTs 58 
3.1.3-2  Electrospinning Method for CNFs Mat 63 
3.2   Electrospinning Fabricated CNFs Mat as an Anode Material 66 
for LIB 
3.2.1  SEM and Raman Characterization of CNFs Synthesized 67 
 Through Electrospinning 
3.2.2  Anode Performance of CNFs Synthesized Through 69 
 Electrospinning 
3.3   Silicon-Coated Carbon Nanofiber Mat for Anode of Lithium 71 
47 
 
Ion Battery 
3.3.1 Introduction 72 
3.3.2  Characterizations of CNF-Si Mat 76 
3.3.3 Anode Performance of CNF-Si Mat 83 
3.4 Summary of Chapter Three 95 
Bibliography of Chapter 3 97 
48 
 
CHAPTER THREE 
Silicon-Coated Carbon Nanofiber Mat for Anode of Lithium 
Ion Battery 
Owing to the current performance deficiencies of micron-sized carbon 
anode materials such as graphites and hard carbons, researchers have been 
struggling a long time to develop new materials and new structures to meet the 
ever-growing market demands. Just as indicated by Richard Feynman in 1959 
that “there is plenty of room at the bottom” [1], the emergency of nanoscience 
and nanotechnology which leads to revolution in basic material science and 
engineering provided us new opportunities to improve carbonaceous anode 
performance. The discovery of nanoscaled carbon materials covers carbon 
nanotubes (CNTs), carbon nanofibers (CNFs), and graphene (Gr) which had 
profound impact on the development of clean energy storage and conversion 
systems. Compared to bulk carbon materials, low dimensional carbons exhibit 
novel properties which are often superior to their bulk counterparts associated 
with decreased size, unique shape, and defects. Therefore, Li storage mechanism 
and anodic behavior could be very different from bulk graphite.  
 
Nanocarbon materials enable electrode reactions to occur that cannot take 
place for materials composed of micrometer-sized particles. The diffusion time 
2
constant for Li ions is given by t=L /D, where L is the diffusion length and D the 
49 
 
diffusion constant [2]. The reduced dimensions increase significantly the rate of 
lithium insertion/removal and also the electron transport because of the short 
distances for Li ion transport within the particles [3]. High surface area permits 
high contact area with electrolyte and hence high Li ions flux across the interface. 
The strain associated with intercalation is expected to be better accommodated 
[4] in nanosized carbons. Due to the advantages as mentioned above, nanocarbon 
materials have been extensively investigated as an anode of LIB.  
 
However, it was found that nanocarbon materials can only provide certain 
degree of capacity improvement which is still far lower than that people expected. 
Thus, incorporation of another cheap and high capacity material such as silicon 
-1
whose specific capacity can reach 3572 mA h g  at room temperature provides a 
new way to overcome the above issue [5]. Nevertheless, severe structural 
pulverization induced by the large volume expansion during charge/discharge 
makes this material impractical [5]. Therefore, anode capacity improvement by 
Si while maintaining the structural stability is another big challenge. Thus, the Si-
coated CNF mat was synthesized by combining electrospinning and 
electrochemical deposition in this work. The original idea is to improve the Si 
structure stability by taking advantage of the entangled three dimensional CNF 
network which consists of good conductivity and porosity. The structure-related 
characterization and anode performance of CNF/Si mat will be given in detail. 
Before that, the relatively popular one dimensional carbon materials such as 
50 
 
CNFs and CNTs will be discussed and compared based on their general 
properties and the potential to be applied as an anode in LIB. Then the detailed 
fabrication process of CNF mat through electrospinning method and the anodic 
performance of as-fabricated CNF mats will be provided in this chaper. 
 
3.1 One Dimensional Carbon Materials as an Anode Material for LIB 
One dimensional carbon materials, carbon nanofibers (CNFs) and carbon 
nanotubes (CNTs) are of great practical and scientific importance. Owing to their 
similar cylinder shapes, the definitions of CNTs and CNFs are often misleading. 
Due to the material and structural similarity, common features do exist in their 
basic properties and Li storage mechanisms. Nevertheless, they are similar in 
form but distinct in (1) general physical properties, (2) Li storage mechanisms 
and (3) means of production which will eventually affect the practical application 
in anode. Therefore, before the detailed discussion of electrospinning fabricated 
CNF mat, the main anode material applied in this chapter, the general 
comparison between CNFs and CNTs based on these three different factors is 
provided here for comprehensive understanding of one dimensional anode 
materials.  
 
3.1.1 General Physical Property of CNFs and CNTs   
If one takes a close look at the basic structure of CNTs and CNFs, the 
51 
 
geometry differences can be easily observed between them. CNFs can be 
visualized as regularly stacked truncated conical or planar layers along the 
filament length without hollow core [5–8] whereas, CNTs are formed by rolling 
up graphene sheets to form concentric tubes containing an entire hollow core. In 
fact, some of the carbon nanotubes being investigated actually qualify as carbon 
nanofibers because the lack of long-range order as in graphitic materials and/or 
they have imperfectly rolled graphene sheets. Generally, diameters of CNFs and 
CNTs can be used as a criterion to distinguish these two kinds of materials, as 
shown in Figure 3.1[9].The diameter of CNTs is around few tens of nanometers 
whereas the diameter of CNFs is usually larger than hundred nanometers. Both 
nanomaterials are available in various lengths and could be up to several hundred 
micrometers depending on the feedstock and the production method.  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.1 Schematic comparison of the diameter dimensions on a log 
52 
 
scale for various types of fibrous carbons. Cited form Ref. [9]. 
In the case of CNFs, the most important feature is that it exposes large 
portion of graphene edge planes on its surfaces. In the case of CNTs, since it was 
formed by rolling up graphene sheets, the basal plane of graphene is exposed, as 
shown in Figure 3.2 [10]. This general difference in structure will eventually 
affect the Li storage mechanism which will be discussed later. Compared to the 
rather simple configuration of CNFs, CNTs display several different structures 
based on the number of graphene layers and the rolling direction.  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.2 Wrapping of graphene sheet to form SWNT. Cited and 
modified form Ref. [10]. 
 
According to the number of graphene layers, CNTs can be further 
distinguished into SWNTs and MWNTs. SWNT is a single graphene sheet rolled 
into a form of a tube, whereas MWNTs are composed of several concentric tubes 
53 
 
of graphenes. The diameter of CNTs varies from a few nanometers in the case of 
SWNTs to several tens of nanometers in the case of MWNTs. The representative 
TEM figures of SWNT and MWNT are shown in Figure 3.3 [11].  
 
Figure 3.3 Schematic indications of (a) SWCNT, (b) MWCNT, and 
the corresponding TEM images in (c) and (d). Cited and replotted 
from Ref. [11]. 
 
According to the rolling directions, SWNTs can be completely described by 
a single vector   (called chiral vector), as shown in Figure 3.4. Two atoms in 
a planar graphene sheet are chosen and one set to be origin. The chiral vector  
is pointed from the first atom toward the second one and is defined by the 
relation  = n  + m , where n and m are integers,  and  are the unit 
cell vectors of the two-dimensional lattice formed by the graphene sheets. The 
54 
 
direction of the nanotube axis is perpendicular to this chiral vector. The angle 
between the chiral vector and zigzag nanotube axis is the chiral angle θ 
(Figure 3.4). With the integers of n and m already introduced before, this angle 
can be defined by θ −1  = tan (  ). SWNTs can be described by 
the pair of integers (n,m) which is related to the chiral vector. Three types of 
SWNTs are revealed with these values: when n = m, the nanotube is called 
“armchair” type (θ = 0◦); when m = 0, then it is of the “zigzag” type (θ = 30◦). 
Otherwise, when n ≠ m, it is a “chiral” tube and θ takes a value between 0◦ 
and 30◦. The value of (n,m) determines the chirality of the nanotube and affects 
the electronic property. SWNTs with |n-m| = 3q are metallic and those with |n-
m| = 3q±1 are semiconducting (q is an integer) [12].  
 
Figure 3.4. Chiral vector  and chiral angle θ definition for a (2, 
4) nanotube on graphene sheet.  and .are the unit cell vectors 
55 
 
of the two-dimensional hexagonal graphene sheet. The circumference 
of nanotube is given by the length of chiral vector. The chiral angle 
θ is defined as the angle between chiral vector and the zigzag axis. 
Cited and modified from Ref. [12]. 
 
Compared to SWNTs which display complex structure-determined 
electronic properties, MWNTs are multi-surface graphene with various chiral 
angles and would lose special electronic properties, and thus they reveal an 
average effect of all chiral tubes and thus usually exhibit a metallic property 
since their diameters are large.  [11]. In comparison with CNTs, CNFs show 
relatively low conductivity. As a result, in the aspect of material conductivity, 
CNTs could be better choice for LIB anode. 
 
3.1.2 CNFs and CNTs Using as an Anode Material for LIB  
The limited capacity of graphite as introduced in chapter two has hindered 
the further development of battery technology. The interesting properties of one 
dimensional carbon materials therefore have been widely studied to substitute 
graphite as an anode material of LIB. Generally, CNTs and CNFs show similar 
advanced properties with graphite. On the one hand, they preserve even exceed 
the common graphite in the sense of high chemical stability and low resistance; 
On the other hand, they show other favorable characteristics which could further 
56 
 
benefit the performance of anode. For example, CNTs and CNFs exhibit high 
specific area which increases the contact area of electrode and electrolyte leading 
to higher charge/discharge rates. The high mechanical strength and flexibility is 
again superb for a long cycle life [13-16] and potential application in flexible 
electronics, respectively.  
 
The storage mechanisms of Li in CNFs and CNTs are similar to each other 
and resemble that of bulk carbon materials combing the characteristics of 
graphite and non-graphitic carbon. Li ions could be stored through: (1) 
intercalation (LiC6 stoichiometry); (2) adsorption and accumulation on the outer 
surface, (3) void space between bundles, (4) defect sites, cavities and nanopores. 
These kind of storage mechanisms have been well illustrated in chapter two, see 
Figure 2.10 [17-18].  
 
However, one main difference does exist between CNFs and CNTs. In the 
case of CNTs, lithium insertion through the walls (basal plane of graphene sheet) 
or the capped ends is energetically not favorable as suggested by Kar et al. who 
investigated lithium insertion into CNTs by ab initio and DFT methods [19]. On 
the other hand, lithium ions can be inserted through CNF walls since it is mainly 
composed of edge plane of graphene sheets [5-9]. More comprehensive 
information related to Li insertion through these two kinds of graphene planes 
will be provided in chapter 4. Thus, in the aspect of feasibility of Li penetration 
57 
 
which is closely related to the storage capacity and charge/discharge rate, CNFs 
using as anode material could be more advanced compared to CNTs.  
 
In addition to the differences in basic material property and Li storage 
mechanism as mention above, one more important factor that needs to be 
considered is the means of fabrication for one dimensional carbon materials. As a 
matter of fact, styles of the produced carbon materials, feasibility for further 
processing into LIB anode, and also cost all have huge influences for the real 
application of CNFs and CNTs. Thus, the following section will mainly focus on 
discussion of two popular fabrication methods of CNFs and CNTs. 
 
3.1.3 Fabrication Methods of CNFs and CNTs 
3.1.3-1 Chemical Vapor Deposition for CNFs and CNTs 
Owing to material and structure similarity, both CNFs and CNTs can be 
synthesized through chemical vapor deposition (CVD). CVD is a well known 
production method for carbon based materials. One dimensional CNF/CNT and 
two dimensional graphene can be fabricated using this method. Three basic 
elements for CVD growth are catalyst, carbon precursor, and sufficient thermal 
energy for gas decomposition and reaction to occur. Briefly, the CVD method 
involves the decomposition of a gaseous or volatile compound of carbon, 
catalyzed by metallic nanoparticles with external energy supply, which will also 
58 
 
serve as nucleation sites for the initiation of low dimensional carbon growth. The 
most frequently used catalysts are transition metals, primarily Fe, Co, or Ni. The 
energy source is heat from a furnace of CVD [11]. By varying the conditions, 
powder-like samples or film-like samples consist of vertically aligned CNTs or 
network of CNFs/CNTs which are supposed to benefit the fabrication process of 
LIB electrodes, can be easily obtained, as shown in Figure 3.5. The length, 
diameter, and morphology of CNFs and CNTs also can be controlled during the 
synthesis process.  
Figure 3.5 CVD process-fabricated (a) CNT power, (b) vertically 
aligned CNTs, and (c) CNF planar network. Cited from Ref. [11]. 
 
One dimensional carbon anode usually consists of a thin layer of 
CNFs/CNTs which is mounted onto a metal current collector. Compared to 
vertically aligned CNFs/CNTs electrode, planar network-like (film or mat) 
morphology is preferred not only because it is suitable to the conventional coin 
cell battery fabrication but also the short circuit problem triggered by material 
59 
 
piercing through the separator can be avoided. In the case of as-grown CNFs or 
CNTs network, the remaining impurities such as catalyst for growth and also an 
appropriate substrate for growth need to be considered before anode preparation. 
Combining all of the factors, power-like CNFs/CNTs samples are widely used 
nowadays. In order to form a network style CNFs or CNTs film from the as-
synthesized powder, material functionalization and dispersion in liquid are 
usually required before the electrode fabrication.  
 
Since CNFs expose graphene edge planes on its surfaces, the surface state 
can be easily modified through chemical functionalization or thermal treatments 
whenever necessary. Functionalizing and dispersing the CNFs are possible to be 
performed using traditional, scalable, and fast processing methods. On the other 
hand, the CNT functionalization was usually performed before dispersion by first 
creating defect sites along the side walls of tubes, which can then be utilized for 
attaching functional groups. This kind of method usually reduces the 
conductivity and mechanical strength of CNTs and requires several processing 
steps. Thus CNTs are more difficult and more costly to scale-up with respect to 
CNFs.  
 
Furthermore, in the case of CNTs, due to their smaller sizes than CNFs, van 
der Waals forces are stronger which induce the formation of ropes or reassemble 
after being dispersed. Therefore, chemical dispersants or functionalization 
60 
 
techniques are usually required to aid and maintain dispersion. Unlike CNTs, 
CNFs with a stacked-cup style are less affected by van der Waals forces and tend 
to stay dispersed for a longer period of time. This difference enables CNFs to be 
dispersed through purely mechanical processing techniques without the need for 
additional, and costly, processing steps, making CNFs easier and cheaper to 
process. 
 
Finally, the prices of CNTs and CNFs are very different depending on the 
producer but in general, the cost of CNFs is typically an order-of-magnitude 
lower than that of CNTs. CNFs are available in large volumes (up to 70,000 
pounds per year) and range in price from as low as $ 100 per pound to as high as 
$ 500 per pound. As to CNTs, the price varies widely and is strongly dependent 
on the quality and purity of the products. One can find commercialized CNT 
powder with the price as low as $100 per pound to as high as $ 750 per gram or 
more. Therefore, the costs for just the raw material plus the one for the extra cost 
of additional processing steps (such as purification and functionalization) are 
much higher than that of CNFs. The series of post-treatment procedures also 
significantly increase the complexity of the application of CNTs.  
 
To conclude all of the factors as mentioned above, it is clear that CNFs 
could be simpler and more cost effective material to be adopted in LIB compared 
to CNTs. However, CVD method for the production of CNFs still remains 
61 
 
unsolved in many aspects. The complex experimental setup such as certain 
vacuum level, toxic gases protection, and even plasma or microwave 
involvement makes it less cost effective. Also, metals that are introduced as 
catalysts during the synthesis usually exist in the sample which interferes with 
the desired properties of CNFs and cause a serious impediment in detailed 
characterization and applications [10-12,20].  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.6 Typical anode assembling based on CVD process 
fabricated carbon powder. Cited and modified from Ref. [20] 
 
Furthermore, it is worth noting that a metal current collector and binders are 
required to complete the final assembly of CVD-grown CNFs powder electrode, 
as shown in Figure 3.6 [20]. The use of metal substrate not only increases the 
mass of electrode which decreases the specific capacity but also causes a 
62 
 
corrosion-related issue in a long run. As for the use of binder, the conductivity 
and effective mass of the electrode also will be affected. Therefore, a mature 
CNF network fabrication method which is catalyst-free, easy, cost-effective 
combining a mat/film style sample as a final product to avoid the multiple steps 
of post treatments is highly demanded in the industrial field of anode fabrication.  
 
3.1.3-2 Electrospinning Method for CNF Mat 
Fortunately, free-standing CNFs mat can be fabricated by electrospinning as 
an alternative method of CVD. Electrospinning uses an electrical charge to draw 
very fine (typically on the micro or nano scale) fibres from liquid. This 
traditional method usually combines electrospinning of organic polymers and 
thermal treatment in an inert atmosphere. The electrospinning technique has been 
considered to be one of the advanced fiber formation techniques from polymer 
solution by using electrostatic forces [21-24]. Electrospun-based nanofibers 
exhibited noticeable properties, such as nanosized diameter, high surface area, 
and thin web morphology, which make them applicable to the fabrication of 
high-performance nanocomposites and energy storage devices [25-31]. The 
simple experimental setup and rather easy process compared to CVD are 
particularly suitable for the production of CNFs in large scale. Since this method 
was adopted in the research part in this work, the fundamental mechanism and 
detailed experimental procedures will be further explained as following.   
 
63 
 
In the electrospinning process, a polymer solution held by its surface tension 
at the end of a capillary tube is subjected to an electric field. Charge is induced 
on the liquid surface by an electric field. Mutual charge repulsion causes a force 
directly opposite to the surface tension. As the intensity of the electric field is 
increased, the hemispherical surface of the solution at the tip of the capillary tube 
elongates to form a conical shape known as the Taylor cone [32]. When the 
electric field reaches a critical value in which the repulsive electric force 
overcomes the surface tension force, a charged jet of the solution is ejected from 
the tip of the Taylor cone. Since this jet is charged, its track can be controlled by 
an electric field. As the jet travels in air, the solvent evaporates, leaving behind a 
charged polymer fiber which lays itself randomly on a collecting metal screen. 
Thus, continuous fibers are laid to form a fabric film [32].  
 
The above description of the process suggests that the following parameters 
affect the process: solution properties including viscosity, conductivity, and 
surface tension; controlled variables including hydrostatic pressure in the 
capillary, electric potential at the tip, and the distance between the tip and the 
collection screen; and ambient parameters including temperature, humidity, and 
air velocity in the electrospinning chamber. By appropriately varying one or 
more of the above parameters, fibers with desired properties can be successfully 
produced [32].  
 
64 
 
  
 
 
Figure 3.7. Schematic of CNF mat fabrication processes: (a) 
schematic of electrospinning apparatus and (b) the fabricated 
nanofiber network. 
 
To be more specific, here, fabrication process of polyimide (PI)-based CNFs 
which were also characterized as an anode in LIB in the following section are 
taken as an example. The apparatus used in the electrospinning process is shown 
in Figure 3.7. It consists of a glass syringe with a maximum volume of 20 ml. 
The glass syringe was filled with a Poly(amic acid) (PAA) solution, inside where 
a metal needle (figure not shown) was embedded at the tip of the solution. A 
syringe pump (figure not shown) was used to keep the solution at the tip of the 
tube and also control the flow rate (injection rate) of solution. The solution was 
65 
 
charged by connecting the metal electrode to a high voltage power supply. A 
cylindrical collector wrapped with aluminum foil was used as collecting devices 
for the charged fibers.  
 
The Poly(amic acid) (PAA) was synthesized by pyromellitic dianhydride 
(PMDA, Sigma Aldrich) and oxydianiline (ODA). PMDA of 4.4 g was added 
into ODA (4.0 g) pre-dissolved DMF solution (21 g). The mixture was stirred for 
30 min with a magnetic bar. 413 μL triethyl amine (TEA) was then added to 
control the molecular weight. The as-prepared solution was then electrospun into 
PAA nanofibers. The separation distance between the needle and collector, DC 
bias voltage, and solution flow rate were 15 cm, 20 kV, and 0.2 mL h-1, 
respectively. The PAA nanofiber mat with aluminum foil was then put into 
stabilization oven and converted into polyimide (PI) mat after seven different 
-1
oxidation steps at a rate of 1°C min .[52] The PI mat was then peeled off from 
the aluminum foil and transferred into high temperature furnace. CNF mat was 
formed by annealing the PI mat according to three steps annealing procedures 
(firstly from room temperature to 600 °C in 1 h, then 600 °C to 1000 °C  in 1.3 
h, and finally maintaining in 1000 °C for 1 h) under argon gas environment by 
following the previous publication [33].  
 
3.2 Electrospinning Fabricated CNFs Mat as an Anode Material for 
LIB 
66 
 
3.2.1 SEM and Raman Characterization of CNFs Synthesized Through 
Electrospinning 
The as-fabricated CNFs mat was free-standing film with a large area up to 
2
15 x 15 cm . CNF mat were carefully weighted by using the A&D BM-22 
microbalance located inside the dry room after cut into a 1.5 cm diameter round 
shape. The average mass of the film was around 1mg with a thickness of 25 ± 3 
m. Typical SEM images of CNFs mat were shown in Figure 3.8. The average 
diameter of the fiber was around 180 nm and the surface of CNFs was smooth 
and clean. The micro-Raman spectra was shown in Figure 3.9. It clearly showed 
-1
a G-band near 1592 cm , which is related to the optical E2g phonon at the 
2
Brillouin zone center indicating sp  hybridization of carbon network and a D-
−1
band near 1352 cm , which corresponds to transverse optical phonon near the K 
3
point and indicates sp  hybridization of carbon network [34]. The intensity ratio 
of D band to G band (ID/IG) was around 0.83. This fairly high value of ID/IG 
indicates the existence of large amount of disorder carbon phase and rather poor 
conductivity of CNFs. This could lead to a poor electrochemical cycle 
performance. Further extensive high temperature (> 1000 °C) and high vacuum 
treatment could improve the crystallinity of the as-synthesized CNFs mat, but the 
degree of the flexibility and the extra cost need to be considered. 
 
 
 
67 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.8. SEM images of as-synthesized CNFs with (a) top view and (b) 
cross-sectional images. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.9. Micro-Raman spectra of CNFs mat fabricated by 
electrospinning method. 
 
This kind of free-standing CNF mat fabricated through a simple 
electrospinning method is of great interest to be studied as an anode material in 
LIB because not only the sample exhibits a film-like nature right after the 
68 
 
fabrication, which avoids the use of binder and metal substrate, but also the well-
interconnected three-dimensional network structure provides a good porosity and 
reasonable conductivity compared to common graphite. Therefore, the as-
fabricated CNF mat was applied and tested as an anode in the following section. 
 
3.2.2 Anode Performance of CNFs Synthesized Through 
Electrospinning 
The electrospinning fabricated CNF mat were directly used as an anode for 
LIB test in the section. Electrochemical measurements were carried out with a 
CR 2032 coin cell using VMP3 instrument (BioLogic Science Instruments). The 
cell was assembled in a dry room using CR 2032 cell case with bare CNF mat as 
a working electrode, lithium metal foil as a counter/reference electrode, and 1 M 
of LiPF6 in a 1:1 (v/v) mixture of ethylene carbonate (EC) and diethyl carbonate 
(DEC) as electrolyte. No extra metal current collector, binder or conducting agent 
were used. A glassy carbon microfiber was used as a separator. The cells were 
+
charged and discharged galvanostatically between 2.0 and 0.01 V vs. Li/Li . Here, 
-1
we defined 1 C to be 372 mA h g . The general charge/discharge profile is shown 
in Figure 3.10a. 
 
The charge/discharge (CD) profiles of CNF mat show a gradual change in a 
broad voltage window during charge/discharge, revealing a V-shape feature. This 
is in good contrast with a U-shaped graphite CD curve due to the existence of 
69 
 
st
disordered carbon phase in our CNF mat [35-36]. In the 1  charge of CNF, a 
plateau near 0.7 V vs. Li/Li+ can be attributed to the formation of solid-
electrolyte interface (SEI) via electrolyte decomposition [35]. In the discharge 
+
process, the slope of the curve started approximately at 0.3 V vs. Li/Li  and has 
-1 +
delivered a specific capacity around 100 mA h g  below 0.1 V vs. Li/Li . The 
capacity from the potential region above 0.1 V may be ascribed to the faradic 
capacitance on the surface of CNFs and the capacity from the region lower than 
0.1 V can be related to the lithium intercalation into CNFs [36-38]. This is in 
good agreements with combining effect of graphite and non-graphitic carbon as 
analyzed in chapter two. The CNF mat delivered a charge and discharge capacity 
-1 st
of 776 and 458 mA h g  in the 1  cycle and nearly saturated to 280 and 281 mA 
-1
h g  after 50 cycles. The related capacity of each cycle, the rate performance  
 
Figure 3.10. (a) Voltage profiles electrospinning fabricated CNF mat 
between 0.01 and 2 V at a charging rate of 0.1 C. The cycle numbers 
70 
 
are indicated in the figure. (b) Rate performance and columbic 
efficiency of the above sample. 
 
with higher current and columbic efficiency were summarized in Figure 3.10b. It 
is clear to see the columbic efficiency which is defined as discharge capacity 
divide by the charge capacity in the first cycle was only 60% and increased to 
almost 100% in the following cycle. The small columbic efficiency is induced by 
the large irreversible capacity which is related to the SEI formation as mentioned 
in chapter two. 
In summary, although both lithium intercalation and other storage 
mechanisms are possible in CNF mat, the slightly higher lithium storage capacity 
compared to graphite in the beginning of the cycling is far lower than we 
expected. Furthermore, similar problems of surface-electrolyte interface (SEI) 
formation and rather large Li insertion potential window as mentioned in non-
graphitic carbon in chapter two still exist. As a result, CNFs do not seem to offer 
a major route to improve the anode performance. Thus, searching for 
nanomaterial-based alternatives for graphite that combine inherent protection 
against lithium deposition, low cost, low toxicity, fast lithium insertion/removal 
speed and also higher capacity still remains challenging. 
 
3.3 Silicon-Coated Carbon Nanofiber Mat for Anode of Lithium Ion 
71 
 
Battery 
3.3.1 Introduction 
In order to improve the capacity of conventional carbon based materials, 
researchers have been focusing on the discovery of high capacity materials. 
Recently, silicon, a high lithium storage capacity material (specific capacity of 
-1
3572 mA h g  at room temperature, corresponding to Li15Si4) has been proposed 
[39]. Yet, large volume expansion up to 400 % during charge/discharge causes a 
severe structural pulverization, making this material impractical. For instance, a 
simple deposition of Si thin film on metal substrate leaves crack formation during 
cycling and therefore a contact loss between active material and current collector 
occurs, leading to a poor cyclability, as shown in Figure 3.11 [40]. Si 
nanowires/nanotubes (NWs/NTs) fabricated by various methods on metal 
substrate could be an ideal approach to accommodate the volume change due to 
existence of sufficient empty space between adjacent NWs/NTs [41-42]. 
However, poor root adhesion with substrate and its brittle nature usually create 
troubles in traditional coin cell fabrication process. On the other hand, the major 
issue for Si nanoparticles, compared to Si NWs/NTs, is the formation and 
preservation of electrical contact between each nanoparticle and substrate [43]. 
This means that additional binder and conductive additives are usually needed, 
which is similar to carbon based powder materials as mentioned in section 3.1.3-
1 and will in turn increase the dead mass and thus reduce the capacity of the 
72 
 
electrode.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.11. (a) Structure deformation indication of Si based 
film/particles before and after charge/discharge cycling. (b) SEI 
st
images of CVD deposited Si thin film on Cu stustrate after 1  and 
th
30  cycles of charge/discharge. Cited and modified from Ref. [20]. 
Owing to these difficulties, several Si/nanocarbon composites have been 
proposed. Silicon has been successfully deposited onto carbon fibers or CNFs 
through chemical vapor deposition or sputtering [44-53]. Although Li storage 
capacity was improved due to the contribution of deposited Si layers, 
inhomogeneous deposition of Si atoms on fibers along the depth of the film 
diminishes the effect of Si layers. Si nanoparticles have been deposited on CNFs 
73 
 
by dispersing them in organic solution and then co-spinning onto metal substrate 
followed by heat treatment [50-53]. This causes again undefined nature of 
adhesion between Si nanoparticles and CNFs, which is closely related to the 
efficiency of charge transport across the interface. Electrochemical deposition of 
silicon onto CNF substrate is rather promising, since the liquid reaction is easy to 
handle with low cost and also the shape of silicon can be controlled by the 
deposition conditions. Apart from the fabrication benefits, the CNF mat is a free-
standing three dimensional skeleton and is conductive and porous so that the use 
of binders and conductive additives can be avoided.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.12.Schematic of the apparatus for electrodeposition of Si. 
The cell consists of three electrodes: woking electrode (as-fabricated 
CNF mat), counter electrode (Pt wire) and reference electrode 
74 
 
+
(Ag/Ag ). During the deposition, a Si-containing electrolyte (SiCl4 in 
-1
PC) was add into the cell and a cyclic voltage scan (20 mV s ) was 
applied to the electrodes. 
 
In this study, the free-standing CNF mat was fabricated by using 
electrospinning of polymer solution followed by stabilization and carbonization, 
as introduced in section 3.1.3-2. Si was deposited on the surface of CNFs by 
electrodeposition method through a home-made three-electrode cell. The cell 
configuration was shown in Figure 3.12. By varying the deposition conditions, a 
spaghetti-like Si layer with high surface area and porosity was formed. Si layer 
was uniformly coated over nanofibers independent of the depth of the film. More 
importantly, volume expansion was easily accommodated on the cylindrical 
fibers and highly porous network of CNF mat. High temperature annealing of 
1000 °C was performed to improve material purity and construct stable Si and 
CNF interface by forming Si-C bond. This free-standing Si-coated CNF mat was 
directly used as an anode material for LIB without using any additional metal 
substrate or extra binder materials. The capacity of Si/CNF mat anode was 
clearly improved by almost twice compared to that of graphite material. The 
detailed electrochemical analysis was provided in conjunction with structural 
properties.  
 
75 
 
3.3.2 Characterizations of CNF-Si Mat 
Figure 3.13a shows typical cyclic voltammograms (CVs) at a scan rate of 
-1
20 mV s  for CNF in PC electrolyte with/without adding SiCl4. It is clear to see a 
reduction peak centered at around -2.0 V only in the case of electrolyte 
containing SiCl4. This suggests that Si ion is reduced into Si and deposited onto 
-
CNF mat during CV test following the electrochemical reaction SiCl4 + 4 eSi 
+
+ 4Cl . Si loading amount on CNF mat was controlled by varying number of CV 
deposition cycles, as shown in Figure 3.13b. Mass (thickness) of Si/CNF mat 
keeps increasing from ~ 1 mg to ~ 4 mg (from ~ 25 m to 130 m), as the 
number of Si deposition cycles increased to 1000 cycles.  
 
  
Figure 3.13. (a) Cyclic voltammograms of silicon electrodeposition 
-1
in PC solution with/without SiCl4 at a scan rate of 20 mV s . (b) 
Mass and thickness of Si/CNF mat with respect to different silicon 
76 
 
deposition cycles. The error bar is added in the figure. 
 
 A series of structure characterizations of Si/CNF mat of with 200 cycles 
CV deposition are shown in Figure 3.14. Micro-Raman spectra of bare CNF mat 
(also shown in Figure 3.9) and pristine Si/CNF mat (without annealing, indicated 
as Si-200-p) in Figure 3.14a shows intensity ratio of D band to G band (ID/IG) 
remained unchanged (∼ 0.83) between bare CNF and Si-200-p after 
electrodeposition of Si, indicating that carbon material is remarkably stable 
compared to traditional metal substrate in severe electrochemical environment 
[37]. However, in the case of Si/CNF mat after 1000 °C annealing (indicated as 
Si-200-a), the value of ID/IG slightly decreased to ~ 0.79, suggesting an improved 
graphitization in the CNF network. It is of note that no Si related peak can be 
found in Si-200-p. This could be ascribed to the highly disordered nature of the 
deposited Si which is caused by electrostatic clustering with alkyl terminators 
and also the presence of deposited electrolyte residues on the surface, as shown 
in Figure 3.15a [54]. On the other hand, three additional Si related peaks were 
shown in the spectrum of Si-200-a. It is known that first order transverse-optical 
−1 
(TO) phonon mode of crystalline Si (c-Si) will display a sharp peak at 520 cm
which usually becomes broaden and is downshifted when the long-range order in 
-1
Si is lost [55]. In our case, the peak located at around 500 cm  was assigned to 
microcrystalline or nanocrystalline (c/nc) Si and a broad band at the low energy 
-1
side originated from the presence of amorphous Si (a-Si). The peak near 300 cm  
77 
 
resembles transverse acoustic (TA) phonon mode of c-Si and could be softened in 
-1 
a-Si [55-57]. In addition, c-Si usually exhibits a small peak at 950 cm which is 
related to the chemisorption of atomic/molecular oxygen species [58]. Here, we 
-1 -1
also found a softened peak at 920 cm in Si-200-a. A red shift of 30 cm  is 
 
possibly caused by the existence of a-Si [57]. All of these factors demonstrate 
that as-deposited Si is completely disordered and evolves into more distinct a-Si 
and c/nc-Si with additional oxygen species after high temperature annealing.  
 
 
 
Figure 3.14. (a) Micro-Raman spectra of bare CNF mat and Si/CNF 
mat with 200 cycles of Si deposition before/after annealing, indicated 
as Si-200-p and as Si-200-a in the figure. (b) XPS spectra of the 
electrode surface with active materials consisting of Si-200-p and Si-
200-a, respectively. 
   
Figure 3.14b plots the XPS spectra of Si/CNF mat with 200 cycles 
78 
 
deposition before and after1000 °C annealing. It is obvious to see that the 
intensities of Si 2s and Si 2p peaks increased clearly while the C 1s peak 
relatively decreased. In addition, Cl 2p peak which appeared in Si-200-p 
disappeared after annealing. After Si electrodeposition, certain amount of 
electrolyte could be decomposed and remained on the Si surface. After annealing, 
the residual film which mainly contained C, O, and Cl was removed, as seen in 
Figure 3.15. This is also in good corroboration with Figure 3.14a. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.15. SEM images of (a) Si-200-p and (b) Si-200-a samples. 
Dark color portion indicates electrolyte residues on the surface of 
CNF mat. After 1000 °C annealing, the uniform mat surface was 
observed by the removal of electrolyte, as shown in (b).  
 
Figure 3.16a is the SEM image of the bare CNF mat which already 
explained in Figuer 3.8. On the other hand, the Si-200-a sample displayed a 
79 
 
rough spaghetti-like surface, as shown in Figure 3.16b. The cross sectional view 
of Si-CNF core-shell structure was shown in the inset of Figure 3.16b. It is of 
note that the core-shell structure was formed uniformly independent of the depth 
over hundred micrometers, which is in good contrast with other methods such as 
sputtering and CVD, in which Si is not uniformly deposited along the depth of 
the sample. AFM morphology of the same sample was provided in Figure 3.16c 
with an amplified phase image in Figure 3.16d, again demonstrating rough Si 
surface on the surface of CNFs. This unique spaghetti-like Si structure provided 
large surface area compared to the flat Si thin film which can facilitate the charge 
transfer at the electrolyte/Si interface. Moreover, the volume expansion can be 
accommodated to certain degree by the high porosity of Si under the condition of 
200 cycles deposition which is certainly better than the thick Si layers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
80 
 
Figure 3.16. (a) SEM images of as-synthesized bare CNFs and (b) 
Si-200-a. The cross-sectional images are shown in the insets. (c) 
AFM image of Si-200-a. The high resolution image of dashed square 
in (c) is shown in (d). 
 
Figure 3.17a is the TEM image of the Si-200-a sample. The layer thickness 
of deposited Si was ~ 20 nm in this case. The existence of Si on the surface of 
CNF was again confirmed by EDS line profile along the dashed line in the TEM 
figure, as shown in Figure 3.17b. The spaghetti shape of Si was not visible here 
probably due to the sample damage during TEM sample preparation process with 
sonication. Since the thin film of electrodeposited silicon is highly active and 
therefore can be oxidized immediately upon exposure to air during transfer from 
the glove box to TEM, or X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements, the crystalline 
nature of the electrodeposited Si film is unlikely to be directly observed [59].  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
81 
 
Figure 3.17. (a) TEM image of Si-200-a. The EDS line profile 
along the dashed line is shown in (b). 
 
To obtain information of interface between CNF and Si, C 1s and Si 2p 
peaks in XPS were deconvoluted, as shown in Figure 3.18. C 1s peaks before 
and after annealing were clearly distinct with each other. Clear Si-C peak near 
2 3
283 eV was visible in addition to small sp  and sp  peaks after annealing, while 
2 3
only intense sp  and sp  peaks were shown before annealing [60-61]. It is of note 
3 2
that the ratio of sp  to sp  peak was slightly reduced after annealing (from 62 % 
reduced to 48 %), revealing similar trend to the change of D/G ratio in Raman 
spectra, shown in Figure 3.14a. In addition, COx peak near 288 eV slightly 
increased after annealing [62]. Similar phenomenon was observed in Si 2p peak 
(Figure 3.18c, d). Before annealing, the main peak near 102.2 eV was SiOx peak 
with additional Si-Si peak near 99.3 eV [62]. After annealing, SiOx content was 
slightly increased due to ambient oxidation, in good agreement with C 1s peak 
analysis. More importantly, Si-C peak near 100.8 eV appeared after annealing 
[60]. The Si-C peak shown in C 1s and Si 2p after annealing comes from 
chemical bonding between CNF and Si at the interface. This peak is small due to 
narrow interface region, which is hardly observable by Raman spectroscopy, as 
shown in Figure 3a. The presence of such Si-C bonds at the interface may not 
contribute to Li storage but plays an important role in strengthening adhesion of 
Si layer to CNFs and furthermore efficient charge transfer at the interface during 
82 
 
lithiation/delithiation process [63-64].  
 
Figure 3.18. High-resolution XPS spectra of Si/CNF with 200 
cycles of Si deposition before and after annealing. Figure (a) and (c) 
are C 1s and Si 2p fitted peaks before annealing. (b) and (d) are C 
1s and Si 2p fitted peaks after 1000 °C annealing. Peak positions 
and relative ratios are shown in the figure. 
3.3.3 Anode Performance of CNF-Si Mat 
The electrochemical performance of bare CNF and Si/CNF mat was 
investigated in LiPF6/EC+ DEC solution. For better comparison, the bare CNF 
83 
 
mat was annealed (indicated as CNF-a) at the same condition as the composite 
mat. The electrochemical performance comparison between CNF-a and non-
annealed CNF was shown in Figure 3.19. In Figure 3.19a, lithiation/delithiation 
occurred below ~ 0.3 V in the cathodic/anodic scan which resembled the 
characteristic of hard carbon in the case CNF [35,38]. However, the cathodic 
peak below 0.1 V and the anodic peak at ~ 0.1 V belong to the characteristic of Li 
intercalation/deintercalation into graphitic layers in CNF-a [65-66].This 
manifests that our as-fabricated CNF mat contains a certain degree of 
graphitization and disordered phase which is consistent with Figure 3.14a and 
Figure 3.18 and also the improved graphitization degree of CNFs after 1000 °C 
annealing. In Figure 3.19b, the impedance profiles show decrease of both series 
resistance (the starting point) and charge transfer resistance (the radius of 
semicircle ) after 1000 °C annealing. This again can be attributed to the higher 
graphitization degree of CNF after annealing. 
 
84 
 
Figure 3.19. (a) CV profile comparison between bare CNF mat and 
CNF mat after 1000 °C annealing. The curves were recorded after 
st -1
1  CV scan between 0.01 to 2 V at a scan rate of 0.1 mV s . (b) AC 
impedance spectra of the above two electrodes. The spectra were 
recorded right after the cell assembling before cycling. 
 
The CV curves of CNF-a and Si/CNF mat with 200 cycles of Si deposition 
were shown in Figure 3.20a. In the case of Si/CNF mat, no appreciable peaks 
related to LixSi alloy formation were observed in Si-200-p (dashed line). On the 
contrary, two pairs of redox reaction peaks were observed in Si-200-a (solid line). 
The sharp cathodic peak at ~ 0.01 V can be attributed to a combination effect of 
CNF mat and c-Si/a-Si. The cathodic peak (Li alloy) at 0.2 V and anodic peaks 
(Li dealloy) at 0.37 V and 0.52 V are due to the formation of amorphous LixSi 
phase and delithiation back to a-Si, respectively [67-68]. The increase of the peak 
intensities of a-Si with increasing the scan cycle numbers can be ascribed to the 
conversion of the c/nc-Si into amorphous phase during the repeated CV scans. 
The electrochemical analysis in Figure 3.20a provides us further understanding 
of the Si crystallinity which is again in good agreement with Figure 3.14a.  
85 
 
 nd th
Figure 3.20. (a) The 2  and 10  cyclic voltammograms of CNF-a 
(square), Si-200-p (dashed line) and Si-200-a (solid line) mats 
-1
between 0.01 and 2 V at a scan rate of 0.1 mV s . (b) and (c) are 
voltage profiles of Si-200-p/Si-200-a and CNF-a/Si-200-a between 
0.01 and 2 V at a charging rate of 0.1 C. The cycle numbers are 
indicated in the figure. (d) Charge/discharge capacity and Coulombic 
efficiency of Si-200-a for the first 80 cycles. 
 
th
The 1, 2, 10, 30, 50  galvanostatic charge/discharge (CD) profiles between 
86 
 
0.01 and 2 V of Si/CNF mat with 200 cycles deposition before/after 1000 °C 
annealing are plotted in Figure 3.20b. The CD rate was 0.1 C, where 1 C is 
-1
defined to be 372 mA h g . Compared to Si-200-p which delivers a capacity 
-1
around 300 mA h g , Si-200-a exhibited much higher capacity of almost 900 mA 
-1 st -1 th
h g  at 1  discharge and 730 mA h g  at 50  discharge according to the total 
mass of Si and CNF with an average fading rate of 0.34 % per cycle. This can be 
attributed to the presence of a mixed phase of Si (c-Si and a-Si) and also the 
improved material purity after annealing by removing the electrolyte residues as 
discussed. Figure 3.20c is the galvanostatic CD profiles of CNF-a mat and Si-
200-a. The CD profiles of CNF-a mat has already explained in Figure 3.10. 
Compared to CNF-a mat, the Si-200-a sample showed a large capacity of 1650 
-1 st
mA h g in the 1  charge and a higher capacity by almost three times (730 mA h 
-1 th
g ) after 50  cycles, since Si contains a higher Li storage capacity than carbon. 
However, the large capacitance loss of the first cycle related to the formation of 
the SEI layer was observed. Figure 3.20d shows capacity retention of the Si-200-
nd
a sample at the specific charging rates. The discharge capacity at the 2  cycle 
-1 -1 -1
was 710 mA h g  at 0.2 C, 637 mA h g  at 1 C and 565 mA h g  at 2 C. The 
Coulombic efficiency is defined as the ratio of the discharge to charge capacity 
and plotted in the same figure. The Coulombic efficiency of Si-200-a sample 
st
approached to 54 % at the 1  cycle due to the SEI formation and increased to 
99 % after 20 cycles at 0.1 C rate. The value was smaller than the ideal efficiency 
because of the reformation of SEI layer on newly exposed Si during cycling with 
87 
 
  
a cost of Li consumption [69]. Compared to the Si thin film on the two 
dimensional Cu substrate, the improved cyclic life was attributed to the highly 
porous three dimensional CNF substrate and also the unique Si spaghetti 
structure, which can both accommodate Si volume expansion. The comparison 
between our work and previous publications with respect to the different 
fabrication methods of Si/CNF composite structure was shown in Table 3.1. It is 
clear to see that our result showed reasonable capacity and also capacity retention. 
More importantly, our structure involved no metal substrate compared to others.  
 
Table 1. Anode performance comparison of silicon/CNF composites 
fabricated by different methods. CNF film is usually fabricated by 
mixing CNF powder with a binder. CNF mat is binder-free 
freestanding film fabricated by electrospinning method. 
 
 
 
 
88 
 
Current 
Si deposition Mass Si mass Capacity@cycles Capacity Structural 
Structure -2 density -1 Remarks 
Method [mg cm ] ratio -1 [mA h g ][a] retention features 
[mA g ] 
[44]
Si@CNF  CVD 2 75 % 500 1600@55 80 % film Metal substrate 
[45] CF mesh as a 
Si@CNF  CVD 4 37 % 50 766@20 80.3 % film 
substrate 
[46]
Si@Hollow CNF  CVD — 25 % 0.5C[b] 750@100 68.2 % film Metal substrate 
[47]
Si@CNFs  Sputtering 0.4 16 % 50 1200@105 90 % film Metal substrate 
VACNFs grown 
[48] 2752@ 
Si@VACNFs  Sputtering 0.2 49 % 323 89 % — on metal 
100[c] 
substrate 
[49]
SiNWs@CNF  VLS 3.6 80 % 342 1400@40 77 % film — 
[50] Si NPs in DMF & 
Si/CNF  — 16 % 100 773@20 90.4 % mat Metal substrate 
electrospinning 
[51]
Si/CNF  As above 1.6 26 % 50 726@40 46.8 % mat Metal substrate 
Si-CNF 
[52] As above — 50 % 240 1300@100 1 film Metal substrate 
core-shell  
[53] Si NPs in DI & 
Si/CNF  — 41 % 35 892@50 — mat Metal substrate 
electrospinning 
No substrate 
Si/CNF (Ours) Electro-deposition 1 43 % 37 730@50 85 % mat 
No binder 
[a] Capacity is calculated based on silicon & carbon mass. [b] C rate is not mentioned in the reference. [c] Capacity is 
calculated based on silicon mass.  
 
89 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.21. (a) Charge (filled symbols)/discharge (open symbols) 
capacity in terms of different numbers of silicon deposition cycles 
after high temperature annealing. Capacity was calculated based on 
silicon mass only. Sample indications are shown in the right dashed 
square. (b) AC impedance spectra of the above five electrodes. The 
spectra were recorded right after the cell assembling before cycling. 
The equivalent circuit is shown in the inset. The related resistance 
value in Figure (b) was plotted in Figure (c) with respect to different 
silicon deposition cycles. 
90 
 
For better understanding of the structure-related Li storage capacity, 
different Si amount was deposited on the CNF mat by varying the number of 
electrodeposition cycles. The capacity retention of Si/CNF mats (all after 
1000 °C annealing) upon the different Si deposition cycle numbers are 
summarized in Figure 3.21a. Here, the specific capacity was expressed in terms 
of net Si mass excluding carbon mass. The specific capacity with respect to net 
Si mass from the composite was calculated from the following equation: 
QSi  = mCNF/mSi {Qcomposite (1+ mSi/mCNF) – QCNF} 
 
where “Qcomposite” is the total capacity of CNF-Si composite according to the total 
mass of Si+CNF electrode. QSi (QCNF) is the specific capacity based on the net 
mass of Si (CNF). Here mSi (mCNF) is the mass of deposited Si (CNF) in the 
-1
composite. The values of specific capacity was ~ 1545 mA h g  at the beginning 
of charge/discharge and were similar to each other regardless of the Si deposition 
cycle numbers. However, capacity retention became poorer as the Si loading 
amount increased, for example, the capacity of 200 and 1500 Si electrodeposition 
-1 -1
cycles was 1354 mA h g  and 873 mA h g , respectively. As the Si thickness 
increases, deformation energy of Si increases as well, inducing more crack 
initiation and propagation. In other words, in the case of thicker Si layers, crack 
generation caused by volume variation is more significant [43]. Therefore, 
thicker Si layer peels off easily and eventually the capacity degradation occurs 
more severely than that of thinner Si layer. The cohesive energy of Si-C bonds at 
91 
 
the interface between Si and CNF is helpful for structure stabilization against the 
increased deformation energy. Deformation energy is proportional to the 
thickness, while interfacial energy is constant. When deformation energy exceeds 
interfacial cohesive energy at critical layer thickness of Si, the structure of Si 
breaks down. On the other hand, Si shape transformation was observed from 
spaghetti-like to granule-like when CV deposition cycles keep increasing from 
200 to 1500, as shown in Figure 3.22. The thin Si layer fabricated with 200 
cycles CV deposition revealed a highly porous structure (See Figure 3.16), and 
therefore the volume expansion can be minimized compared to the thick granular 
shape Si layers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
92 
 
Figure 3.22. SEM images of (a-b) Si-1500-p and (c-d) Si-1500-a 
samples.  
 
Nyquist plots of Si/CNF mat with different Si loading masses are plotted in 
Figure 3.21b. The curves were collected right before electrochemical 
charge/discharge cycling. All of the curves showed a depressed semicircle and a 
tail, which indicates the mixed kinetics and diffusion process. The semicircle in 
the high frequency range indicates the charge transfer resistance (Rct) at the 
interface between electrode and electrolyte. The tail at low frequency region 
implies a diffusion-controlled process. An equivalent circuit is shown in the inset 
where Rs, Cdl, and Zw represent respective series resistance of 
electrolyte/electrolyte contact, double layer capacitance, and Warburg impedance 
related to the diffusion of ions in the bulk electrode [70-71]. The value of Rs (first 
point) and Rct (diameter of semicircle) were extracted from Figure 3.21b and 
replotted in Figure 3.21c. As the Si loading amount increased, Rs slightly 
increased due to lower conductivity of Si. The Rct decreased sharply with Si 
deposition and then increased gradually as the Si coating amount increased. The 
origin of large value of Rct observed in bare CNF-a sample compared to the Si-
coated CNF sample could be the morphology difference between CNF-a and Si. 
The Si shell exhibited much rougher surface than that of bare CNF-a (See Figure 
3.16), which benefited the charge transfer process through large surface area. The 
different lithiation mechanisms between silicon and carbon may also play a role 
93 
 
here. The increase of Rct in Si/CNF mat with increasing Si deposition cycles is 
attributed to the larger granular size and less porosity of the deposited Si layers 
(See Figure 3.22a). The straight line can be interpreted as the resistance for the 
diffusion process of lithium ions into the electrode. The smaller angle between 
real axis and the straight line as the Si loading amount increases simply indicates 
again the limited diffusion of Li ions with increasing Si loading amount.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.23. Charaterizations of Si-200-a electrode after 80 cycles 
charge/discharge. (a) Top-view SEM image, (b) Cross-sectional SEM 
image, (c) High resolution TEM image, and (d) AFM image. The SEI 
layer was selectively removed by washing the sample with acetonitrile 
94 
 
and diluted HCl. 
  
 Figure 3.23a and b show SEM images for the structural changes of Si-
200-a after cycling test. The SEI layer was selectively removed by using 
acetonitrile and then HCl prior to imaging [72]. Si layer became rough hairy and 
highly porous, compared to the one before cycling test in Figure 3.16. The lower 
density of Si suggested that some spaghetti type Si at the outermost surface was 
removed, as can be seen in the TEM image of Figure 3.23c. This is why capacity 
was degraded during cycling. Nevertheless, compared to the sample with hgiher 
Si loading amount (Figure 3.22c,d), the major portion of Si remained after 
cycling test (See AFM image of Figure 3.23d), retaining relatively high capacity 
and reasonable capacity retention. This is in fact corroborated to the robust Si-C 
bonds formed at the interface between Si and CNF which was achieved by 
1000 °C annealing. Free-standing CNF mat assembled through electospinning 
process without a binder or a metal substrate is a good platform to provide such 
3
robust Si-C bonds due to abundant existence of sp  bonds at the surface of CNF, 
as discussed in Figure 3.14 and Figure 3.18. 
 
3.4 Summary of Chapter Three 
In this chapter, general introduction of common one dimensional carbon 
materials like CNFs and CNTs has been given. Compared to higher conductivity 
of CNTs, CNFs exhibit an easier Li insertion pathway and a cost effective 
95 
 
property which make them a good candidate for anode of LIB. Especially, the 
electrospinning method synthesized free-standing CNF mat has been intensively 
studied in this work since it prevents the use of metal substrate, binder and 
conducting polymers which usually increase the mass of electrode, degrade the 
long term stability and reduce the anode capacity. Due to the unsatisfied capacity 
of as-fabricated CNF mat, Si, a high capacity media was introduced into the three 
dimensional CNF network through electrochemical deposition. Once again, the 
structure involves neither a metal substrate nor binders. This could help us in 
designing anode structures with high capacity and long cycle life in an economic 
way. Thermal annealing of the combined mat at 1000 °C was necessary to 
remove undesired residues formed during electrodeposition process and to form 
strong Si-C bonds at the interface between Si layer and CNFs, which eventually 
improved adhesion of Si to CNF and furthermore facilitated efficient charge 
transfer between Si and CNF during lithiation/delithiation. This resulted in clear 
improvement of the capacity of carbon materials more than twice for most of 
cases. Optimization to improve composite structures for capacity, charge transfer, 
and cycle life is further required for industry applications.  
 
 
 
 
96 
 
Bibliography of Chapter Three 
[1] R. Feynman, Caltech's Engineering and Science Magazine 1960. 
[2] Y. Ren, R. A. Armstrong, F. Jiao, G. P. Bruce, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
2010,132, 996. 
[3] D. S. Su, R. Schlögl, ChemSusChem 2010, 3, 136. 
[4] A. S. Airco, P. Bruce, B. Scrosati, J.Tarascon, W. V. Schalkwijk, Nature 
Mater. 2005, 4, 365. 
[5] N.M. Rodriguez, A. Chambers, R.T.K. Baker, Langmuir 1995, 11, 3862. 
[6] M. Endo, Y.A. Kim, T. Fukai, T. Hayashi, K. Oshida, M. Terrones, T. 
Yanagisawa, S. Higaki, M.S., Appl. Phys. Lett. 2002, 80, 1267. 
[7] S.H. Yoon, S. Lim, Y. Song, Y. Ota, W.M. Qiao, A. Tanaka, I. Mochida , 
Carbon 2004, 42, 1723. 
[8] S.H. Yoon, C.W. Park, H.J. Yang, Y. Korai, I. Mochida, R.T.K. Baker, 
N.M. Rodriguez, Carbon 2004, 42, 21. 
[9] Springer Handbook of Springer Handbook of Nanomaterials 2011, 
chapter 7. 
[10] J. Prasek, J. Drbohlavova, J. Chomoucka, J. Hubalek, O. Jasek, V. 
Adamc, R. Kizek, J. Mater. Chem. 2011, 21, 15872. 
[11] N. Saifuddin, A. Z. Raziah, A. R. Junizah, J. Mater. Chem. 2013, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2013/676815.  
[12] T. Belin, F. Epron, Materials Science and Engineering B 2005, 119,105. 
[13] J. Zhao, A. Buldum, J. Han, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2000, 85, 1706. 
[14] A.S. Claye, J.E. Fischer, C.B. Huffman, A.G. Rinzler, R.E. Smalley, J. 
97 
 
Electrochem. Soc. 2000, 147) 2845 
[15] W. Lu, D.D.L. Chung, Carbon 2001, 39, 493–496. 
[16] H. Shimoda, B. Gao, X.P. Tang, A. Kleinhammes, L. Fleming, Y.Wu, O. 
Zhou, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2002, 88. 015502. 
[17] H. H. Lee, C. C. Wan, Y. Y. Wang, Journal of Power Sources 2003,1,7. 
[18] C. Casas, W. Li, Journal of Power Sources 2012, 208, 74. 
[19] T. Kar, J. Pattanayak, S. Scheiner, J. Phys. Chem. A 2001, 105, 10397. 
[20] C. K. Chan, H. Peng, G. Liu, K. McIlwrath, X.Zhang, R. A. Huggins, 
Y.Cui. Nature Nanotech. 2007, 3, 31. 
[21] S. Ramakrishna, K. Fujihara, W.-E. Teo, T.-C. Lim, Z. Ma, World 
Scientific, Singapore 2005. 
[22] D.H. Renecker, A.L. Yarine, H. Fong, S. Koombhongse, J. Appl. Phys. 
2000, 87, 4531. 
[23] Y.M. Shin, M.M. Hohman, G.C. Martin, Polymer 1999, 40, 7397. 
[24] I.D. Norris, M.M. Shaker, F.K. Ko, A.G. MacDiarmid, Synth. Met. 2000, 
114, 109–114. 
[25] F. Ko, Y. Gogotsi, A. Ali, N. Naguib, H. Ye, G. Yang, C. Li, P. Willis, 
Adv. Mater. 2003, 15, 1161. 
[26] C. Vozzi, C.J. Flaim, F. Bianchi, A. Ahluwalia, S. Bhatia, Sci. Eng. 2002, 
20, 43. 
[27] C. Kim, K.S. Yang, Appl. Phys. Lett. 2003, 83, 1216. 
[28] R. Dersch, M. Steinhart, U. Boudriot, A. Greiner, J.H. Wendorff, Polym. 
Adv. Technol. 2005, 16, 276. 
98 
 
[29] K. Aoki, Y. Usui, N. Narita, N. Ogiwara, N. Iashigaki, K. Nakamura, H. 
Kato, K. Sano, N. Ogiwara, K. Kametani, C. Kim, S. Taruta, Y.A. Kim, 
M. Endo, N. Saito, Small 2009, 5, 1540. 
[30] C. Kim, K.S. Yang, M. Kojima, K. Yoshida, Y.J. Kim, Y.A. Kim, M.  
Endo Adv.Funct. Mater. 2006, 16, 2393. 
[31] R. Bacon: Production of graphite whiskers, J. Appl. Phys. 1960, 31, 283. 
[32] J. Doshi, D. H. Reneker, Journal of Electrostatics 1995, 35, 151. 
[33] N. T. Xuyen, E. J. Ra, H. Z. Geng, K. K. Kim, K. H. An, Y. H. Lee, J. 
Phys. Chem. B 2007, 111, 11350. 
[34] K. Nakamoto, in Infrared and Raman spectra of inorganic and 
coordination compounds. Part A: theory and applications in inorganic 
chemistry – 6th ed. Wiley 2009 
[35] P. G. Bruce, B. Scrosati, J. M. Tarascon, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 
2930. 
[36] E. J. Yoo, J. Kim, E. Hosono, H. S. Zhou, T. Kudo, I. Honma, Nano Lett.  
2008, 8, 2277. 
[37] F. Yao, F. Günes, H. Q. Ta, S. M. Lee, S. J. Chae, K. Y. Sheem, C. S. 
Cojocaru, S. S. Xie, Y. H. Lee, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 8646. 
[38] C. C. Li, X. M. Yin, L. B. Chen, Q. H. Li, T. H. Wang, J. Phys. Chem. C 
2009, 113, 13438. 
[39] T. D. Hatchard, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2004, 151, A838. 
[40] J. P. Maranchi, A. F. Hepp, A. G. Evans, N. T. Nuhfer, P. N. Kumta, J.  
Electrochem. Soc. 2006, 153, A1246. 
99 
 
[41] C. K. Chan, H. L. Peng, G. Liu, K. Mcilwarth, X. F. Zhang, R. A. 
Huggins, Y. Cui, Nature Nanotechnology 2008, 3, 31. 
[42] H. Wu, G. Chan, J. W. Choi, I. Ryu, Y. Yao, M. T. McDowell, S. W. 
Lee, A. Jackson, Y. Yang, L. B. Hu, Y. Cui, Nature Nanotechnology 
2012, 7, 310. 
[43] H. Wua, Y. Cui, Nano today 2012, 7, 414. 
[44] L. F. Cui, Y. Yang, Ch. M. Hsu, Y. Cui, Nano Lett. 2009, 9, 3370. 
[45] G. K. Simona, B. Maruyama, M. F. Durstock, D. J. Burton, T. Goswami, 
J. Power Sources 2011, 196, 10254. 
[46] J. Y. Howe, D. J. Burton, Y. Qi, H. M. Meyer III, M. Nazri, G. A. Nazri, 
A. C. Palmer, P. D. Lake, J. Power Sources 2013, 221, 455. 
[47] P. C. Chen, J. Xu, H. T. Chen, C. W. Zhou, Nano Res. 2011, 4, 290 
[48] S. A. Klankowski, R. A. Rojeski, B. A. Cruden, J. W. Liu, J. Wu, J. Li,  
DOI: 0.1039/c2ta00057a. 
[49] J. W. Choi, L. B. Hu, L. F. Cui, J. R. McDonough, Y. Cui, J. Power 
Sources 2010, 195, 8311. 
[50] L. W. Ji, K. H. Jung, A. J. Medford, X. W. Zhang, J. Mater. Chem. 2009, 
19, 4992 
[51] L. W. Ji, X. W. Zhang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2010, 3, 124. 
[52] T. H. Hwang, Y. M. Lee, B. S. Kong, J. S. Seo, J. W. Choi, Nano Lett. 
2012, 12, 802. 
[53] X. Fan, L. Zou, Y. P. Zheng, F. Y. Kang, W. C. Shen, Electrochemical and 
Solid-State Lett. 2009, 12, A199. 
100 
 
[54] H. J. Kim, M. H. Seo, M. H. Park, J. P. Cho, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2010, 
49, 2146. 
[55] M. Holzapfel, H. Buqa, L. J. Hardwick, M. Hahn, A. Würsig, W. 
Scheifele, P. Novák, R. Kötz, C. Veit, F. M. Petrat, Electrochimica Acta 
2006, 52, 973. 
[56] G. Kanellis, J. F. Morhange, M. Balkanski, Physical Review B 1980, 21,  
1543. 
[57] J. E. Smith, Jr., M. H. Brodsky, B. L. Crowder, M. I. Nathan, A. Pinczuk,  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 1971, 26,642. 
[58] K. Nakamoto, in Infrared and Raman spectra of inorganic and 
coordination compounds. Part A: theory and applications in inorganic  
chemistry – 6th ed. Wiley 2009. 
[59] X. Chen, K. Gerasopoulos, J. Guo, A. Brown, C. Wang, R. Ghodssi, J. N.  
Culve, Adv. Fun, Mater. 2011, 21, 380.  
[60] S. Contarini, S. P. Howlett, C. Rizzo, B. A. De Angelis, Applied Surface  
Science 1991, 51, 177. 
[61] M. Rybachuk, J. M. Bell, Carbon 2009, 47, 2481. 
[62] N. Fourches, G. Turban, B. Grolleau, Applied Surface Science 1993, 68, 
149. 
[63] A. M. Wilson, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1995, 142, 326. 
[64] W. Wang, P. N. Kumta, J. Power Sources 2007, 172, 650. 
[65] K. A. Striebel, A. Sierra, J. Shim, C. W. Wang, A. M. Sastry, J. Power  
Sources 2004, 134, 241. 
101 
 
[66] M. D. Levi, C. Wang, J. S. Gnanaraj, D. Aurbach, J. Power Sources 
2003, 119–121, 538. 
[67] X. L. Chen, X. L. Li, F. Ding, W. Xu, J. Xiao, Y. L. Cao, P. Meduri, J. 
Liu, G. L. Graff, J. G. Zhang, Nano Lett. 2012, 12, 4124. 
[68] Y. Yao, M. T. McDowell, I. Ryu, H. Wu, N. Liu, L. B. Hu, W. D. Nix, 
Y. Cui,  Nano Lett. 2011, 11, 2949. 
[69] P. R. Abel, Y. M. Lin, H. Celio, A. Heller, C. B, Mullins, ACS Nano 
2012, 6, 2506. 
[70] K. Naoi, N. Ogihara, Y. Igarashi, A. Kamakura, Y. Kusachi, K. Utsugi, J.  
Electrochem. Soc. 2005, 152, A1047. 
[71] J. B. Gong, H. Q. Wu, Electrochimica Acta 2000, 45, 1753. 
[72] H. Wu, G. Y. Zheng, N. Liu, T. J. Carney, Y. Yang, Y. Cui, Nano Lett. 
2012, 12, 904. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
102 
 
Outline of Chapter Four 
 
Diffusion Mechanism of Lithium Ions through Basal Plane of 
Layered Graphene 
 
4.1 Brief Introduction of Two Dimensional Graphene 105 
4.1.1 General Physical Properties of Graphene 105 
4.1.2 Synthesis Methods of Graphene 110 
4.2 Diffusion Mechanism of Lithium Ions through Basal Plane of 113 
Layered Graphene 
4.2.1 Material Preparation 116 
4.2.2 Transfer Process of Graphene 116 
4.2.3 Characterization of Graphene 117 
4.2.4 Anode Performance of Graphene 121 
4.3 Summary of Chapter Four 140 
Bibliography of Chapter 4 141 
 
 
 
 
 
103 
 
CHAPTER FOUR 
Diffusion Mechanism of Lithium Ions through Basal Plane of 
Layered Graphene 
Recently, graphene, composed of monolayer of carbon atoms arranged in a 
honeycomb network, has emerged explosively and attracted much attention in the 
fields of materials science and condensed-matter physics. High mobility of 
graphene is probably the most fascinating properties for physicists and engineers, 
which is attributed to the linear band dispersion, leading to massless Dirac 
quasiparticle feasture. On the other hand, as the thinnest carbon material, 
graphene and graphene-based materials have promising applications in numerous 
energy sciences, for instance, Li-ion batteries (LIBs), fuel cells, and solar cells. 
In particular, these materials have superior electrical conductivities to graphitic 
2
carbons and higher surface area of over 2600 m /g than CNTs, and a broad 
electrochemical window that would be more advantageous in energy storage. 
Thus, a series of research works on LIB based on graphene were performed 
intensively with the similar routes to the CNTs-based electrode materials for LIB 
[1-6]. Some scientists used graphene sheets directly as an anode material for LIB 
and found that they had improved electrochemical properties. For example, the 
first reversible specific capacity of the prepared graphene sheets with a specific 
2 -1
surface area of 492.5 m /g was as high as 1264 mAh g  at a current density of 
-1
100 mA/g. After 40 cycles, the reversible capacity was still kept at 848 mAh g  
at a current density of 100 mA/g, higher than that of CNTs or CNF electrodes [7].     
104 
 
The interesting single atomic layer structure of Gr can also be used for 
fundamental science and a good candidate for the fundamental study of Li ion 
diffusion pathway in addition to its real applications as an anode in LIB. Large 
area single layer graphene (SLG) which consists of a clean basal plane for the 
study of Li insertion prevents the coexistence of both edge plane and basal plane 
in graphite that often hinders the understanding of lithium ion diffusion 
mechanism. Therefore, in this chapter, after a brief introduction which includes 
the general properties and production methods of Gr, the diffusion mechanism of 
lithium ion through basal plane of layered graphene has been intensively studied. 
In this case, two types of graphene samples were prepared by chemical vapor 
deposition (CVD): i) well-defined basal plane single layer graphene grown on Cu 
foil, ii) edge plane-enriched graphene layers grown on Ni film. Electrochemical 
performance of graphene electrodes has been examed based on different number 
of graphene layers and also different defect population on graphene basal plane. 
Density functional theory calculations were also provided to clarify the diffusion 
barrier heights for various types of defects.  
 
4.1 Brief Introduction of Two Dimensional Graphene 
4.1.1 General Physical Properties of Graphene   
Graphene, as a two-dimensional (2D) honeycomb lattice structure consists of 
2
sp -hybridized carbon atoms in the form of one-atom thick planar sheet. This 
105 
 
unique material is a basic building block for many other carbon-based graphitic 
materials such as zero-dimensional (0D) fullerenes, one-dimensional (1D) carbon 
nanotubes, and three-dimensional (3D) graphite and is an excellent basic model 
for many other 2D materials (Figure 4.1) With its unique structure, graphene 
exhibits extraordinary thermal, mechanical, and electrical properties, which 
makes it a popular material in many different research areas, theoretically and 
experimentally.  
 
Figure 4.1. Graphene is a basic 2D building block for other carbon 
allotropes with different dimensionalities. Cited from Ref.[8]. 
 
The unusual electronic properties of graphene are originated from its unique 
106 
 
band structure. In the lattice of graphene, carbon atoms are located at each corner 
of hexagons binding with three neighboring carbon atoms. Carbon atom has four 
valance electrons, of which three of them were used for covalent σ-bonding with 
adjacent carbon atoms in graphene lattice. The remaining π-orbital determines 
the electronic structure of graphene which is "coupled" with the other π-electrons 
on adjacent carbon atoms. Each π-electron is delocalized, i.e., has a "field of 
influence" of 360 degrees around its own carbon atom within an individual 
graphene layer. The unit cell of graphene contains two π-orbitals (π and π*), 
which disperse to form two π-bands that can be considered as bonding (the lower 
energy valence band) and anti-bonding (the higher energy conduction band) in 
nature.  
 
Figure 4.2. a) Honeycomb lattice of graphene with two carbon atoms 
per unit cell. b) Tight-binding band structure of graphene π-bands, 
considering only nearest neighbor hopping. c) Band structure near K 
point showing the linear dispersion relation. Cited from Ref. [9]. 
107 
 
   The bonding-antibonding gap closes at the corners of the Brillouin zone, or 
the K points. (See Figure 4.2) As a result, the π-band dispersion is approximately 
linear around the K points: E = ħvF |k| where k is the wave vector measured from 
K, ħ is Planck’s constant, h divided by 2π, and vF is the Fermi velocity in 
6
graphene, approximately 10  m/s. Since the electrons in graphene have kinetic 
energies exceeding their mass energy, electrons behave like photons or ultra-
relativistic particles with an energy-independent velocity vF that is approximately 
300 times smaller than the speed of light in vacuum, allowing relativistic effects 
to be observed in graphene without using particle accelerators [9]. These 
quasiparticles, called massless Dirac fermions, can be seen as electrons that have 
lost their rest mass m0 or as neutrinos that acquired the electron charge e [10]. 
This linear (or “conical") dispersion relation at low energies, electrons and holes 
near these six points, two of which are inequivalent, behave 
like relativistic particles described by the Dirac equation for spin 1/2 particles 
[11]. Dirac fermions behave in unusual ways when compared to ordinary 
electrons if subjected to magnetic ﬁelds, leading to new physical phenomena [12-
14] such as the anomalous integer quantum Hall effect (IQHE) measured 
experimentally [14-15]. The IQHE in graphene can be observed at room 
temperature because of the large cyclotron energies for “relativistic” electrons 
[16]. In fact, the anomalous IQHE is the signature of Dirac fermion behavior. 
With these properties, graphene is a perfect mixture of semiconductor (zero 
density of states) and a gapless metal which is quite different from other metals 
108 
 
and semiconductors with its very long mean free paths (Figure 4.3).  
Figure 4.3. Electronic Structure of: a) Metal: Finite Density of States 
(DOS) at Fermi energy. b) Semiconductor: Gap at Fermi energy. c) 
Graphene: Zero gap Semiconductor. Zero DOS metal. Cited from Ref. 
[18].The interesting 2D structure of graphene makes it a good 
candidate for electronic device applications [17]. Unlike an ordinary 
metal, in which any impurities in the crystal scatter electrons and so 
lead to energy loss, the electrical resistance in graphene is independent 
of the number of impurities. This means that electrons can travel for 
several microns without colliding with impurities, making graphene a 
promising material for a potential high-speed electronic switching 
devices called a “ballistic transistor”. Experimental transport 
measurements show that graphene has a unusual high electron 
2 -1 -1
mobility even at room temperature in excess of 15,000 cm v s , of 
which mobilities for holes and electrons are nearly same [9,14,18-19]. 
Graphene has a number of other extraordinary properties such as strong 
109 
 
mechanical properties and high flexibility allowing strain based graphene 
electronics [20-21]. Another important aspect of graphene is its high thermal 
conductivity up to 5000 W/mK at room temperature, 20 times higher than that of 
copper, which could be exploited to applications in microelectronics and thermal 
management structures [22]. Its optical properties are strongly related to its 
electronic properties such as its low energy electronic structure where conical 
bands of electron and hole meet at the Dirac point resulting in unexpected high 
opacity. An atomic monolayer of graphene absorbs πα ≈ 2.3% of white light, 
where α is the fine-structure constant [23]. It has been shown that graphene 
system exhibits electrochromic behavior, allowing tuning of both linear and 
ultrafast optical properties [24-25]. 
 
4.1.2 Synthesis Methods of Graphene 
First attempts to understand graphene basic properties was made by micro-
cleavage method, which is a simple method to isolate graphitic layers from 
graphite into monolayer graphene flakes with the help of a cohesive tape [26]. 
Although many basic electronic properties of graphene such as the bipolar 
transistor effect, ballistic transport of charges, large quantum oscillations, etc., 
was explored by this method, for the large area graphene applications it was 
necessary to find other synthesis methods (Figure 4.4). For this purpose, 
epitaxial synthesis of graphene on different substrates was realized. Many 
110 
 
important graphene properties have been identified in graphene produced by SiC 
substrate. In this method, the face of SiC, silicon or carbon-terminated, is used 
for graphene formation in ultra high vacuum furnaces at very high temperatures 
o
(>1100 C) to decompose SiC into graphene [27]. Another approach for epitaxial 
growth of graphene is studied on metal substrates, such as ruthenium, iridium, 
and nickel [28-30]. Although these substrates have been employed to obtain 
graphene, the interaction of graphene with underlying substrate and conducting 
behavior of these substrates necessitated the transfer of graphene layers onto 
other substrates for the application. Synthesis of large area few-layered graphene 
together with transferring onto another substrate has been realized by chemical 
vapor deposition (CVD) method on polycrystalline metallic substrates such as Ni 
and Cu [31-33]. Unlike the epitaxial growth techniques, CVD method has been 
realized by decomposition of carbon gases such as ethylene and methane 
followed by either carburization-precipitation, or surface adsorption of carbon 
gases. To fabricate devices, graphene, then, can be transferred by 
polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) as a supporting layer after dissolving the 
underlying metallic substrate in a metal etchant and “fishing” the single-layer 
graphene up onto a desired substrate (e.g., SiO2/Si). This method will be 
explained in detail later. Graphene has been also derived from graphite oxide by 
thermal annealing or chemical reduction by hydrazine [34-35]. This method 
combining with the typical powder process (involves metal current collector and 
binders) as mentioned in chapter three has been considered as one of the most 
111 
 
popular one used in battery electrode fabrication. However, graphene produced 
by graphite oxide reduction is lower in quality compared to graphene obtained by 
aforementioned production methods due to incomplete removal of various 
functional groups by existing reduction methods.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.4 Production techniques of graphene: a) Micro-cleavage 
method, isolating graphitic layers from graphite into monolayer 
graphene flakes with the help of a cohesive tape, b) epitaxial growth 
of graphene by decomposition of SiC into graphene, c) chemical 
vapor deposition method by decomposition of hydrocarbon gases on 
metal substrates, and d) chemical exfoliation of graphite oxide by 
weakening van der Waals cohesive force via insertion of reactants 
into interlayer space.     
112 
 
4.2 Diffusion Mechanism of Lithium Ions through Basal Plane 
of Layered Graphene 
Graphite has been widely used for anode material in lithium ion battery due 
to its well defined layered structure for lithium intercalation, low operating 
potential, and remarkable interfacial stability [36]. Graphite has two 
characteristic planes: basal plane and edge plane which are parallel and 
perpendicular to the c-axis, respectively. It is known in general that the basal 
plane and edge plane exhibit different physical and chemical activities in many 
aspects, leading to different lithiation capabilities in graphite [37-38]. The 
diffusion time constant for Li ion insertion within the active graphitic flakes is 
governed by the formula τ = L2/2D, where L is the diffusion length (or radius of 
spherical flake) and D is diffusion coefficient [39]. Although lithium diffusion 
through basal plane is rather limited, lithium diffusion may still occur through 
several defect sites such as vacancies and grain boundaries [40-41]. Lithium 
diffusion through edge plane of graphitic flakes can be easily facilitated but 
further complicated by the presence of different functional groups such as 
hydroxyl and carboxyl groups. In other words, lithiation through these two 
different planes is highly anisotropic [42-46].  
One ambiguity in understanding diffusion pathway of lithium ions in 
graphite is the coexistence of both edge plane and basal plane in the sample. The 
presence of these two different interfaces is unavoidable in conventional graphite 
[32,47]. Currently available highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG), which is 
113 
 
well known as highly ordered crystallographic structure, has a finite size of 
flakes whose edge planes are still abundant in addition to basal planes. Therefore, 
lithium ion diffusion through basal plane cannot be observed exclusively [40-
43].Thus, a well defined basal plane of graphite with large area is required to 
have a comprehensive picture of lithium diffusion mechanism in lithium ion 
battery. 
 
Recently large area monolayer and multi-layer graphene have been 
synthesized by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) [32,47]. This paves a new route 
for exploring numerous new fundamental sciences and moreover developing 
numerous technological breakthroughs in electronics and energy storage [48-50]. 
Large area graphene can be transferred onto any substrate by a simple transfer 
process and therefore an anode electrode with layered graphene without leaving 
edge plane (or negligible portion of edge plane) is easily attainable. This provides 
an opportunity to study diffusion of lithium ions exclusively through the basal 
plane of graphene. 
 
On the other hand, in lithium ion battery, corrosion of conventional current 
collectors such as Al, Cu, and stainless steel (SUS) can adversely affect life time 
and safety through increased internal resistance, passivation of active materials, 
and consumption of electrolyte/ active electrode materials [51-57]. Anode 
performance of thin graphene layers can be misguided by the strong substrate 
114 
 
reaction since the most reactive lithium ions exist in electrolyte [58-59]. It has 
been proposed that monolayer graphene can be used as a protective layer for 
 
substrate against air oxidation and mild electrochemical reaction [60-61].
Therefore, information on the critical layer thickness of graphene (lc) to minimize 
the substrate effect and the influence of defects to lc are key ingredients to 
understand electrochemical reaction and protective nature of graphene layers 
under severe electrochemical condition.   
 
The main purpose of this work is twofold: i) To clarify lithium diffusion 
pathway through basal plane of graphene layers and ii) to investigate the 
influence of defect population to lithium ion diffusion and the protective ability 
of graphene layers. In this article, we prepared Cu-grown monolayer graphene 
(SLG) samples and Ni-grown multi-layered graphene (MLG) samples that are 
dominated with graphene basal plane and edge plane, respectively. We found that 
the electrochemical performance of few-layer graphenes (FLGs) which are 
overlapped up to three layers of SLG is strongly affected by the substrate 
reaction. Experiments with Ar plasma treatment indicated that 6 layers of basal 
plane-enriched large area graphene were needed to provide sufficient substrate 
protection. Combing the experimental results and density functional theory 
calculations, we proved that basal plane hindered lithium ion diffusion with a 
high diffusion barrier height, whereas divacancies and higher order defects can 
be shortcuts for lithium ion diffusion. 
115 
 
4.2.1 Material Preparation 
Large area SLG was synthesized on copper foil by atmospheric pressure 
(AP) CVD. Cu foil purchased from Nilaco (Lot No. 113321, 99.96 %, 100 μm in 
thickness) was preannealed to 1060 °C for two hours with 100 sccm of Ar gas 
and 200 sccm of H2 gas to enlarge Cu grain size and then chemico-mechanically 
polished with FeCl3 solution for flattening. The prepared Cu foil was then 
brought into the growth chamber. The temperature of the chamber was heated up 
to 1060 °C with 1000 sccm of Ar gas and 200 sccm of H2 gas for 20 min. 
Methane (5sccm) was then introduced with 10 sccm H2 gas for 5 min. After 
growth, the sample was cooled down to room temperature naturally in the same 
atmosphere. In the case of MLG synthesis, Ni thin film (300 nm) was deposited 
on SiO2 (300 nm)/Si by a thermal evaporator. This was placed in rapid thermal 
CVD chamber. Temperature was increased to 1000 °C in 5 min in vacuum. Ni 
surface was reduced by flowing 45 sccm H2 gas at 1000 °C. The gas mixing ratio 
of C2H2:H2 was optimized to 2:45 sccm and flown for a minute. After completion 
of growth, the gas supply was terminated and the chamber was cooled down to 
 
room temperature. The detail has been described elsewhere [62-63].
 
4.2.2 Transfer Process of a Graphene  
    PMMA (e-beam resist, 950 k C4, Microchem) was spin-coated on the 
graphene/Cu foil (Ni film) at 1000 rpm for 60 s. To etch away Cu foil (Ni film), 
the sample was submerged in a copper etchant (CE-100, Transene) for ∼30 min 
116 
 
(4 hours for Ni film). After rinsing by deionized water for a few times, 
PMMA/graphene layer was fished onto the CR 2032 cell case coated with 
lithium-reaction resistive polymer, as shown in Figure 4.5. PMMA was removed 
by acetone later after graphene was completely dried and attached onto the cell 
case. The transferred sample was then annealed up to 650 °C for 5 h in high 
-6
vacuum (1 x 10  Torr) for further removal of PMMA [63-64].  
 
Figure 4.5. Schematic of fabrication process with Cu-grown SLG 
or Ni-grown MLG (left panel). Bilayer and trilayer graphene can be 
fabricated by transferring monolayer graphene repeatedly. 
Photograph of as-prepared monolayer graphene (PMMA on top) 
floating in water and CR 2032 coin cell case (right panel). 
  
4.2.3 Characterization of a Graphene 
117 
 
Figure 4.6 shows a schematic of the CR 2032 coin cell type battery. The 
half cell was then fabricated with a counter/reference electrode of Li foil for the 
test of Li diffusion through well defined basal graphene plane (Figure 1f). 
Bilayer and trilayer graphene coin cells were also fabricated by transferring 
monolayer graphene repeatedly. MLG was synthesized on Ni film to represent 
graphene where the edge plane was enriched and the half cell was fabricated 
similarly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.6. Schematic of a coin cell structure with Cu-grown SLG 
or Ni-grown MLG. Bilayer and trilayer graphene coin cells were 
fabricated by transferring monolayer graphene repeatedly. 
 
In order to clarify the quality and layer number of graphene, a series of 
characterization was done, as shown in Figure 4.7. Figure 4.7a and b are optical 
118 
 
micrographs of the transferred SLG and MLG on SiO2/Si substrate, respectively. 
The SLG grown on Cu foil was rather flat except small portion (~ 4%) of bilayer 
and trilayer graphene domains represented by the dark spots (arrows) in the 
image (Figure 4.7a). Some wrinkles indicated by the white dashed lines 
introduced during transfer process were also visible. Contrary to this, Ni-grown 
MLG showed multi-layered flakes represented by the white spots (arrows) in 
Figure 4.7b, creating numerous edge planes, as can be visualized in Figure 4.7c. 
−1
Micro-Raman spectra in Figure 4.7d clearly show G-band near 1590 cm , 
2
which is related to optical E2g phonon at the Brillouin zone center indicating sp  
hybridization of carbon network, and G’ −1-band around 2694 cm , which is also 
 
known as 2D-band, an overtone of D-band, in both samples [66]. Large G’/G 
−1
intensity ratio (~ 2) with a small D-band near 1350 cm , which corresponds to 
3
transverse optical phonon near the K point and indicates sp  hybridization of 
carbon network, was observed in SLG, indicating high quality monolayer 
graphene. On the other hand, the intensity ratio of G’/G which is less than one 
reveals multi-layered properties of Ni-grown graphene. Defect distribution was 
shown in the images of confocal Raman mapping of D/G intensity ratio in 
Figure 4.7e and Figure 4.7f. Defects indicated by bright spots were scattered 
uniformly over the surface, while grain boundary lines were faintly visible in 
SLG. Small flakes were visible in MLG (Figure 4.7f). Although D-band 
intensity was barely visible in Figure 4.7d, we clearly observed from D/G band 
mapping that some defects were distributed in both samples. Transmittance of 
119 
 
each graphene layer transferred onto PET substrate was provided in Figure 4.7g. 
The transmittance of SLG was 96.5%, slightly smaller than HOPG value of 
97.7%, which may be attributed to some portion of multi-layered domains 
formation as described in Figure 4.7a [67]. Correspondingly, bilayer and trilayer 
graphene samples revealed a systematic reduction in the transmittance. The Ni-
grown MLG showed 63.6% of transmittance, corresponding to 15 layers in 
average by assuming 2.3 % absorption per each layer [68]. Optical photographs 
were provided to visualize different transmittances with different number of 
graphene layers in Figure 4.7h.  
 
Figure 4.7. Optical micrographs of (a) Cu-grown SLG and (b) Ni-
grown MLG on SiO2/Si substrate. White dashed lines indicate 
wrinkles. Some portion of thicker graphene is indicated by arrows. 
(c) Schematic of (i) SLG with a well defined basal plane and (ii) 
edge plane enriched MLG. (d) Micro-Raman spectra of SLG and 
120 
 
MLG. Confocal Raman mapping of D/G intensity ratio of (e) SLG 
and (f) MLG from squared positions of (a) and (b). The contrast is 
normalized to 0.4 to visualize the defect distribution for both 
images. (g) Wavelength-dependent transmittance (values are 
provided at a wavelength of 550 nm) and (h) optical photographs of 
different number of graphene layers on PET substrate. 
 
4.2.4 Anode Performance of a Graphene 
Electrochemical measurements of different layers of Gr samples were 
performed with a CR2032 coin cell using VMP3 instrument (BioLogic Science 
Instruments). The cell was assembled in a dry room using CR 2032 cell case with 
different number of graphene layers and bare foil (SUS 316) as a working 
electrode, lithium metal foil as a counter/reference electrode, and a 1 M of LiPF6 
in a 1:1 (v/v) mixture of ethylene carbonate (EC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC) as 
an electrolyte. A glassy carbon microfiber was used as a separator. The cells 
were charged and discharged galvanostatically between 3.0 and 0.01 V at a 
 2constant current of 5 A/cm . The AC impedance spectra were obtained by 
applying a sine wave with an amplitude of 10 mV over a frequency range of 100 
kHz to 10 mHz [69]. Figure 4.8a shows cyclic voltammograms (CV) of different 
number of graphene layers at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s from 0.01 V to 3 V. The 
bare SUS electrode showed an anodic peak near 1.03 V (SO) and a cathodic peak 
around 0.78 V (SR). These redox peaks involve chemical reactions with Li ions 
121 
 
and possibly electrolytes. Both anodic and cathodic peaks were reduced in the 
monolayer graphene electrode. These peaks were reduced consecutively in 
bilayer and trilayer graphene electrodes. It is obvious to see that the redox 
reaction of the bare SUS electrode was suppressed by the coated graphene layers. 
An additional cathodic peak appeared near 0.28 V in bilayer and trilayer samples. 
Origin of these peaks could be ascribed to defect-associated lithium adsorption 
[41]. At MLG (15 layer graphenes) sample, a sharp cathodic peak near 0.01 V 
(LiIn) is identified as lithium intercalation and a rather broad peak near 0.12 V 
(LiDe) is related to decomposition of graphitic intercalation compound (GIC) 
stages [58]. It is of note that the bare SUS-related peak was nearly compressed in 
this case. Both LiDe and LiIn peaks appeared in this case, in good contrast with 
FLG samples in which only a clear LiIn peak was observed, suggesting that no 
GIC stages were formed in FLGs. The distinct CV behavior of FLGs and MLG 
demonstrates that lithium ion intercalation becomes more effective in MLG 
induced by the considerable amount of edge planes, as shown in Figure 4.7b. 
122 
 
 Figure 4.8. (a) Cyclic voltammograms of different number of 
graphene layers samples at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s. SUS-related 
redox reaction peaks (SO, SR) and lithium 
intercalation/deintercalation related peaks (LiIn/LiDe) are marked in 
st nd
the figure. (b) 1  and (c) 2  galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles 
of different number of graphene layers at a current density of 5 
123 
 
 2A/cm . (d) The related layer-dependent capacities. Two regimes of 
corrosion-dominant and lithiation-dominant are indicated. 
 
st
Figure 4.8b shows the 1  galvanostatic charge/discharge profile with a 
2
voltage sweeping range of 0.01 ~ 3 V at a constant current of 5 A/cm . As the 
number of graphene layers increased, long tail appeared in the charge curve at 
low voltage region. At MLG sample, a plateau appeared in the range of 1.25 - 0.6 
V. In graphitic material, the solid-electrolyte interface (SEI) formation via 
electrolyte decomposition takes place in the range of less than 1.0 V [43, 68, 70-
71]. The SEI formation potential varies with types of graphite planes. In general, 
SEI forms at higher potential in edge plane than in basal plane [72-74]. 
Therefore, we ascribed this plateau in MLG to edge plane-related SEI formation. 
nd
In the 2  cycle, the voltage profile shows a gradual change in a wide range of 
voltages during charge/discharge, revealing a V-shape curve, i.e., no plateau 
region, as shown in Figure 4.8c. This is in good contrast with a U-shape curve in 
graphite electrode, where the edge plane intercalation is dominant in the plateau 
region of low voltage within 0.1 V [68,75] Capacities of graphene coated 
electrodes in Figure 4.8c were consistently smaller than that of the bare electrode, 
and furthermore much smaller by about 30 times than the recently reported 
graphene battery result [51]. The huge capacity difference comes from the use of 
different substrates, as shown in Figure 4.9. 
124 
 
 Figure 4.9. Cyclic voltammograms at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s (a) 
nd
and 2  galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles (b) at a current 
2
density of 5 µA/cm  of bare CR2032 coin cell case and foil SUS 
316. 
 
Abundant reaction peaks and larger area of CV curve indicate that more 
severe corrosion reaction occurs in the case of foil SUS 316 in Figure 4.9a. The 
capacity indicating substrate corrosion intensity obtained from the cell case in 
Figure 4.9b shows almost 8 times smaller than that of the SUS 316. This huge 
capacity difference can be attributed to the corrosion resistive polymer coated on 
2
the cell case. The capacity of bare foil SUS (~14 µAh/cm ) is still smaller than 
2
the reported value for graphene on Cu substrate (~ 40 µAh/cm ) in Ref. 53, i.e., 
Cu reaction is much stronger than SUS 316 reaction. Therefore, the relative 
higher capacity can be understood by the effect of Cu substrate.This also implies 
125 
 
that in spite of graphene layers coated on the electrode with well defined basal 
plane, the reaction with electrode did occur inevitably.   
 
The related layer-dependent capacities are summarized in Figure 4.8d. As 
st
the number of graphene layers increased, the 1  charge capacity increased rapidly 
up to trilayer graphene electrode and saturated at the MLG electrode. As 
described in the schematic of Figure 4.7c, the basal plane is exposed during 
lithiation up to three layers, whereas both edge plane and basal plane are present 
in 15 layers. Two different types of SEI are formed: i) basal-plane associated SEI 
(b-SEI) which is formed up to 3 graphene layers and ii) edge-plane associated 
SEI (e-SEI) which is formed in MLG sample. It has been known that b-SEI 
formed at lower potential is associated with solvent reduction, while e-SEI 
 
formed at higher potential is associated with salt ions [72-74, 43]. Since our basal 
plane contains abundant defect sites, as observed from Figure 4.7d and e, some 
decomposed solvent molecules may further diffuse into the subjacent layers 
along with Li ions or in a form of lithium salvation and form additional b-SEI 
layer. This is why b-SEI increases as the number of graphene layers increases at 
FLG samples. At MLG electrode, both b-SEI and e-SEI are formed. Although e-
SEI increases in this case, b-SEI is reduced compared to FLG electrodes due to 
the decrease of effective basal plane area of 15 layers (See Figure 4.7c) and 
st
therefore the capacity from SEI formation is saturated in the 1  charge.  
 
126 
 
st
    On the other hand, the 1  discharge capacity decreased gradually up to 
three layer graphene electrode and increased at 15 layer electrode. Similar trend 
nd
was also observed in the 2  charge/discharge profile. The discharge capacities of 
nd st
the 2  cycle were not much different from those of the 1  cycle. Large capacity 
of the bare SUS electrode was reduced by coating graphene layers up to three 
layers. This gradual reduction was also expected from the reduced areas of CV 
curves in FLGs (Figure 4.8a). This implies several facts: i) SUS substrate 
reaction is systematically suppressed with increasing number of graphene layers 
ii) Because lithium ions can diffuse through basal plane of graphene, monolayer 
graphene is not sufficient to prohibit substrate reaction. Since the pure basal 
plane presumably does not allow Li diffusion, the diffusion may be provoked 
through some defect sites that exist on the graphene plane, as observed from the 
D/G intensity ratio of confocal Raman mapping in Figure 4.7e. This will be 
described later in detail. In FLG samples, If we presume capacity only to be 
0.028 μAhcm-2 contributed from intercalation ( / interlayer in the case of LiC6), 
the intercalation capacity reaches 0.056 μAh/cm2 at trilayer graphene sample. 
μAh/cm2This value is negligible to the capacity (0.73 ) observed in our 
experiment. This tells us that even if intercalation of lithium ions was invoked, 
the observation was still obscured by the dominant SUS redox reaction. By 
noting a linear decrease of the capacity and hence extrapolating to a minimum 
capacity, lc to sufficiently prohibit the SUS redox reaction is predicted to be ~ 6 
127 
 
layers. As the number of graphene layers increases, the capacity from the SUS 
redox reaction decreases, while the capacity reduction will be compensated by 
the intercalation capacity between graphene layers. After 6 layers, the capacity 
starts increasing by the pure intercalation. We can define substrate corrosion-
dominant region up to 6 layers and lithiation-dominant region after 6 layers, as 
visualized in Figure 4.8d.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.10. AC impedance spectra obtained by applying a sine 
wave with an amplitude of 10 mV over a frequency range from 100 
kHz to 10 mHz. The inset shows impedance at higher frequency 
region to demonstrate charge transfer resistance. 
128 
 
In order to get the complete image of substrate-related corrosion behavior, 
we performed AC impedance measurement to 6 layers of graphene in the full 
frequency range of 100 kHz to 10 mHz by applying a sine wave with an 
amplitude of 10 mV, as shown in Figure 4.10. All of the impedance spectra 
consisted of a depressed semicircle in higher frequency (Figure 4.10 inset) and a 
straight line with different angles to the real axis in the lower frequency range. 
The depressed semicircle usually can be deconvoluted into two semicircles, 
resulting from SEI formation and charge transportation. Since this measurement 
was carried out without any charge/discharge test, the formation of the SEI 
would be minimized. Therefore, the main contribution of this semicircle could be 
attributed to the charge transport. The charge transport resistances of graphene-
coated samples were obviously larger than that of bare SUS coin cell case which 
can be indicated by the increased diameters of semicircles. Smaller angles of 
graphene electrodes than SUS electrode in the straight line region again 
demonstrated difficulty of lithium ion diffusion into graphene electrodes. All of 
these proved that graphene can be a good protective layer by limiting the ion 
diffusion process at the SUS/graphene interface. Especially, at six layers of 
graphene electrode, the charge transport resistance is largest and the angle of 
straight line is smallest compared to the electrodes coated with one, two, and 
three layers of graphene. This is because further overlapping of larger area 
129 
 
graphene can further minimize lithium ion diffusion which will provide much 
better protective ability compared to less number of graphene layers.  
 
Figure 4.11. Theoretically estimated capacity based on LiC6 
intercalation. No absorption of Li ions occurs at monolayer 
graphene. 
The theoretically estimated capacity at 15 layers (or effectively 9 layers, see 
Figure 4.11), is 0.2 μAh/cm2. However, this value is still far smaller than the 
observed value of 1.30 μAh/cm2. This extra capacity could be ascribed to the 
lithium adsorption on defects of the graphene surface, which can be supported by 
the widely distributed defects observed from confocal Raman mapping in our 
nd
experiments (Figure 4.7f). In the 2  cycle, the discharge capacity was smaller 
130 
 
than the charge capacity consistently, nearly independent of the thickness of 
graphene layers. This difference of 0.35 μAh/cm2 in the charge/discharge 
capacity is irreversible capacity and can be ascribed to strongly adsorbed lithium 
ions on defects such as vacancies or grain boundaries formed on the graphene 
layers. This will be discussed in the theory section later.  
 
Since defects on graphene basal plane seem to play an important role in 
lithium diffusion, a systematic study is required for comprehensive analysis. 
+
Thus, structural defects of graphene were created by Ar  bombardment with 
different plasma powers (15W, 100W) for one minute. The transferred graphene 
-6
was brought into vacuum chamber with a base pressure of 1 x 10  Torr and then 
filled with Ar gas of 100 sccm for a minute, followed by the plasma ignition. 
+
This was repeated layer by layer to obtain Ar  plasma-treated FLG samples. 
Figure 4.12a shows Raman spectra of Ar plasma-treated monolayer graphene. At 
15 W plasma power, D/G intensity ratio was increased to 0.56 from 0.19 in no 
plasma-treated pristine graphene, implying structural defect formation in the 
-1
graphene plane. At 100 W, one additional peak near 1620 cm  (D’) appeared in 
addition to further increase of D-band intensity (D/G intensity ratio is 1.66), 
indicating plausible formation of structural defects. No peak splitting of G-band 
+ -
into G  and G  peaks indicates that our process does not involve strain-induced 
effect. Figure 4.12b shows CV diagrams for SLG electrode with different 
plasma powers at a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s. It is obvious to see that the redox 
131 
 
reaction peak intensities of SO and SR related peaks were enhanced and the 
related peak positions were also shifted after plasma treatment. Those peaks are a 
combination of defect-associated adsorption and SUS substrate reaction, as 
mentioned in Figure 4.8a. Additional redox reaction due to the generated basal 
plane defects by plasma treatment is provoked. Since the protective layer is 
monolayer graphene, extra lithium ions adsorbed on defects could easily reach 
nd
the SUS substrate, thus increasing the substrate redox reaction. The 2  
galvanostatic charge/discharge capacity of SLG increased accordingly compared 
to the pristine graphene sample, as shown in Figure 4.12c. The enhanced 
capacity was attributed to the increased adsorption of Li ions on defects and 
nd
increased substrate reaction, as mentioned in Figure 4.12b. The 2  charge 
capacity kept increasing with increasing plasma power, independent of the 
number of graphene layers, as summarized in Figure 4.12d. The substrate redox 
reaction was also suppressed, which is identified by the capacity decrease with 
increasing number of graphene layers similar to that of pristine graphene samples.  
 
Smaller capacity was increased in FLG electrodes compared to that of SLG 
after plasma treatment and generated different slopes, as shown in Figure 4.12d. 
The absolute slope increased from 0.26 to 0.56 with increasing the plasma power. 
Extrapolation of these slopes, which determines the critical layer thickness to 
prohibit substrate reaction, gave rise to lc of ~ 6 layers independent of the plasma 
power, i.e., defect population. This is rather surprising, because creation of more 
132 
 
defects in the basal plane is expected to increase basal-plane diffusion of Li ions 
which will eventually increase substrate redox reaction (See Figure 4.12b, c) and 
thereby larger critical layer thickness should be required after strong plasma 
treatment. In order to explain this contradictory phenomenon, a schematic of Li 
diffusion through defects in the basal plane is provided in Figure 4.12e. In the 
case of SLG, Li ion diffusion is allowed through defect sites and no lateral 
diffusion limitation is expected, since the graphene layer is fully surrounded by 
Li ions in electrolyte. Therefore, higher defect population will enhance Li ion 
adsorption and also substrate reaction. In the case of FLGs where large area basal 
plane is dominant, graphene layers are overlapped with each other so that Li ions 
will diffuse through defects perpendicular to the plane of top layer first and 
diffuse along the plane of subjacent graphene layer until they meet another defect 
site. Since these Li ions may accumulate near the defect sites generated by Ar 
plasma, Li diffusion along the plane direction will be limited by the steric 
hindrance from aggregated Li atoms, which is different from the SLG case. 
Therefore further Li diffusion through graphene basal planes in FLGs is 
constrained severely by the lateral diffusion at higher defect density. Thus, when 
FLGs are used as a protective layer, the defects-related lithium adsorption on 
subjacent graphene layers and actual lithium ion reaction with substrate are 
suppressed, which is again consistent with the reduction of reaction with 
substrate are suppressed, which is again consistent with the reduction of the 
peaks in CV diagram. As a consequence of these phenomena, the critical layer 
133 
 
thickness gives rise to the same value, independent of the defect population. It 
will be worth mentioning the possibility of forming oxygen-related functional 
groups on defect sites. Li ions can be also adsorbed on such sites and thus our 
argument of lateral diffusion suppression by the steric hindrance is still valid.  
 
 
 
 
134 
 
Figure 4.12. (a) Raman spectra, (b) cyclic voltammograms at a scan 
rate of 0.1 mV/s, and (c) 2nd galvanostatic charge/discharge 
2
profiles at a current density of 5 A/cm  for monolayer graphene 
treated by Ar plasma with different plasma powers (15 W and 100 
nd
W). (d) Capacity of 2  charge as a functional of number of 
graphene layers under different Ar plasma powers. Absolute slopes 
according to different plasma powers and critical layer thickness (lc) 
are indicated in the figure. (e) Schematics of proposed Li diffusion 
mechanism through defects on the basal plane with different defect 
population. Broad down arrows indicate Li ion diffusion through 
defect sites of basal plane. Red glows represent steric hindrance for 
Li ion diffusion formed by the accumulated Li ions or functional 
groups. The inset in the right indicates the relative magnitude of 
diffusion coefficient. (f) Relationship of D/G ratio with the 
extracted slope from (d). 
 
It is intriguing to see the relationship between D/G intensity ratio from 
Raman spectra and the slope extracted from charge/discharge profiles, as shown 
in Figure 4.12f. The slope which indicates Li diffusion through graphene layers 
is correlated to the population of defects in the graphene plane. The larger slope 
implies the slower diffusion rate and vice versa. Li ion diffusion is limited by the 
Li aggregates adsorbed on the increased defect sites described in the schematic 
135 
 
Figure 4.12e. Thus, information of Li diffusion obtained from electrochemical 
test could be used as a metric for evaluating the graphene crystallinity, an 
important material parameter of graphene.  
 
In order to understand what type of defects allows Li ion diffusion through 
basal plane of graphene, we conducted density functional theory calculations for 
various defects: ideal hexagonal site (H site), Stone-Wales defect (SW), 
monovacancy (V1), and divacancy (V2). The density functional theory 
calculations were performed within generalized gradient approximation as 
implemented in DMol3 code. All electron Kohn-Sham wave functions were 
expanded in a local atomic orbital basis set with each basis function defined 
numerically on an atomic centered spherical mesh. A double numeric polarized 
basis sets (DNP) were used for all elements. The dangling bonds of graphene 
edge were saturated by hydrogen atoms and the atomic cluster structure which 
consists of 120 carbon atoms and 48 hydrogen atoms were relaxed fully until the 
-4
force on each atom is less than 10  eV/Å and the total energy change is less than 
-5 -6
5×10  eV. The damped atom-pairwise dispersion corrections of the form C6R  
were also considered for calculations. Li adsorption energy was calculated by 
Ead(Li) = Etot(Li+carbon) - Etot(Li)- Etot(carbon), where Etot(Li) is the self energy 
of lithium atom and Etot(carbon) is the total energy of carbon system. Various 
local charges were also calculated using Mulliken, Hirshfeld, and electrostatic 
potential (ESP).  
136 
 
  
 
 
137 
 
Figure 4.13. Side and top views of atomic configurations (top 
panel), isosurface images of electrostatic potential (second panel), 
bond lengths and local charge distributions at the barrier states 
(third panel), and the diffusion barrier profiles of Li (bottom panel) 
through (a) graphene hexagonal site (H site), (b) Stone-Wales (SW) 
defect (c) monovacancy (V1), and (d) divacancy (V2). Isovalue for 
3
rendering isosurfaces is 0.25 e/Å . The insets in the third panel 
show isosurface image of electrostatic potential for each 
corresponding structure without Li ion. Bond lengths (yellow color) 
and electrostatic potential charges (white color) are in units of Å 
and electrons, respectively. 
 
Li atom adsorbs on the H site with a bond length of 2.35 Å above the 
graphene plane and with an adsorption energy of -1.69 eV, as shown in the upper 
panel of Figure 4.13a and Table 4.1. Li ESP charge at H site is partially depleted 
to 0.62 e. The ESP charge of Li atom at barrier state is 0.28 e, much less 
compared to that at the binding site. This charge difference between adsorption 
and barrier state is an important variable in determining the Coulomb interaction 
energy. As the Li approaches to the barrier site, the available space for Li is 
narrow with a short separation distance of 1.52 Å, invoking severe charge 
overlapping between Li and adjacent carbon atoms, as can be seen in the 
electrostatic potential contour in the second panel of Figure 4.13a. This increases 
138 
 
repulsive forces, giving rise to large diffusion barrier height of 10.2 eV, similar to 
the previous report (Table 4.1) validating our approaches. Similar situation takes 
place in the SW defect which is abundant in the graphene grain boundary. The Li 
adsorption energy near the heptagon is -1.94 eV, slightly stronger than that of H 
site. Although the charge overlapping is still severe, a longer separation distance 
of 1.60 Å and also much less charge difference between adsorption and barrier 
state (0.04 e) forms a relatively smaller activation barrier height of 6.35 eV than 
that of H site, as shown in Figure 4.13b. In the case of V1, Li adsorbs at the 
vacancy site with an adsorption energy of -3.12 eV, keeping closer distance (2.03 
Å), as shown in the top panel of Figure 4.13c. The excess charge difference of Li 
atom between adsorption and barrier site is 0.18 e and the closest separation 
distance at the barrier site is 1.36 Å. Charges are distributed not only on the Li 
and carbon sites but also between them, implying both covalent bonding and 
ionic bonding characters due to charge depletion from Li atom. This produces a 
large diffusion barrier height of 8.86 eV. On the other hand, V2 provides a rather 
large open space with an adsorption energy of -2.36 eV near the middle of the 
two dimers (top panel of Figure 4.13d) such that a large separation distance of 
2.90 Å is maintained. This gives minimizes electrostatic charge overlapping and 
a large bond length of 1.83 Å at the barrier state, i.e., steric hindrance is 
minimized, as shown in the second and third panels in Figure 4.13d. The charge 
difference between the adsorption and the barrier states is 0.04 e. All of these 
factors induced a smallest diffusion barrier height (2.36 eV) among the defects 
139 
 
we studied. This barrier height can be overcome under the typical charging 
conditions of the battery. 
 
4.3 Summary of Chapter Four 
We have studied lithium diffusion pathways with two types of graphene 
samples prepared by CVD; i) well-defined basal plane graphene grown on Cu 
foil and ii) edge plane-enriched graphene layers grown on Ni film. We have 
discovered that electrochemical reaction of electrode (substrate/graphene) not 
only is related to the number of graphene layers but also relies on the defect sites 
on the basal plane of graphene. The experimental and calculated results related to 
the specific type of defects such as divacancies and higher order defects that can 
assist lithium ion diffusion through basal plane could help us in designing high 
capacity and highly conductive corrosion-free electrode for lithium ion battery. It 
would be reasonable to expect that substrate protective nature of few-layer 
graphenes could be the basis of further investigation of preparing original 
substrate which remains unaltered properties and has longer lifetime under severe 
electrochemical corrosion conditions for battery. Furthermore, by correlating the 
lithium diffusion in graphene layers to the D/G intensity ratio from Raman 
spectra, we developed a way of predicting the graphene crystallinity from 
electrochemical method.  
140 
 
Bibliography of Chapter Four 
[1] K.S. Novoselov, et al., Science 2004, 306, 666.  
[2] Y.B. Zhang, Y.W. Tan, H.L. Stomer, P. Kim, Nature 2005, 438, 201. 
[3] A. Altland, Phys. Rev. Let. 2006, 97, 236802. 
[4] D. Chen, L.H. Tang, J.H. Li, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2010, 39,3157. 
[5] D.A.C. Brownson, D.K. Kampouris, J. Power Sources 2011, 196, 4873. 
[6] M. Pumera, En. Env. Sci. 2011, 4, 668. 
[7] P. Lian, et al., Electrochimica Acta 2010, 55, 3909. 
[8] A.K.Geims, K.S. Novoselvo, Nat. Mater. 2007, 6, 183. 
[9] M.S. Fuhrer, C.N. Lau, A. H. MacDonald, MRS Bull. 2010, 35, 289. 
[10] A. K. Geim, K. S. Novoselov, Nature Mater. 2007, 6, 183. 
[11] G. W. Semenoff, Phys. Rev. Lett. 1984, 53, 5449. 
[12] V. P. Gusynin, S. G. Sharapov, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2005, 95, 146801. 
[13] N. M. R. Peres, A. H. Castro Neto, F. Guinea, Phys. Rev. B 2006, 73, 
195411. 
[14] K. S. Novoselov, A. K. Geim, S. V. Morozov, D. Jiang, M. I. Katsnelson, 
I. V. Grigorieva, S. V. Dubonos, A. A. Firsov, Nature 2005, 438, 197. 
[15] Y. Zhang, Y.-W. Tan, H. L. Stormer, P. Kim, Nature 2005, 438, 20. 
[16] K. S. Novoselov, Z. Jiang, Y. Zhang, S. V. Morozov, H. L. Stormer, U. 
Zeitler, J. C. Maan, G. S. Boebinger, P. Kim, A. K. Geim, Science 2007, 
315, 1379. 
[17] J.-C. Charlier, P. C. Eklund, J. Zhu, A. C. Ferrari, Ed. Jorio, A., G. 
141 
 
Dresselhaus, M. S. Dresselhaus, Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 
2008. 
[18] Ph.D. Thesis, Dr. Vladimiras Gavriusinas, Faculty of Physics, Vilnius 
University, Lithuania, 2008. 
[19] A. H. C. Neto, F. Guinea, M. N. Peres, R., K. S. Novoselov, A. K. Geim, 
Rev. Mod. Phys. 2009, 81, 109. 
[20] C. Lee, X. D. Wei, J. W. Kysar, J. Hone, Science 2008, 321, 385. 
[21] V. M. Pereira, A.H. Neto, 2008, arXiv:0810.4539v1. 
[22] A. A. Balandin, S. Ghosh, W. Bao, I. Calizo, D. Teweldebrhan, F. Miao,  
C. N. Lau, Nano Lett. 2008, 8, 902. 
[23] R. R. Nair,  P. Blake,  A. N. Grigorenko, K. S. Novoselov,  T. J. 
Booth,  T. Stauber,  N. M. R. Peres, A. K. Geim, Science 2008, 
320, 1308. 
[24] U. Kürüm, O. Ö. Ekiz; H. G. Yaglioglu, A. Elmali,  M. Ürel, H. Güner, 
A. K. Mızrak,  B. Ortaç, A. Dâna, Appl. Phys. Lett. 2011, 98, 141103. 
[25] Q. Bao, H. Zhang, Y. Wang, Z. Ni, Y. Yan, Z. X. Shen, K. P. Loh, D. Y. 
Tang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2009 19, 3077. 
[26] K. S. Novoselov, A. K. Geim, S. V. Morozov, D. Jiang,  Y. Zhang, S. V. 
Dubonos, I. V. Grigorieva, A. A. Firsov, Science 2004, 306, 666.  
[27] P. Sutter, Nat. Mater. 2009, 8, 171. 
[28] P. W. Sutter, J.-I. Flege, E. A. Sutter, Nat. Mater. 2008, 7, 406. 
[29] I. Pletikosić, M. Kralj,  P. Pervan,  R. Brako,  J. Coraux, A. T.   
N’Diaye,   C. Busse, T. Michely, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2009, 102, 056808. 
142 
 
[30] M. Eizenberg, J. M. Blakely, Surf. Sci. 1970, 82, 228. 
[31] A. Reina, X. Jia, J. Ho, D. Nezich, H. Son, V. Bulovic, M. S. 
Dresselhaus, J. Kong,Nano Lett., 2009, 9, 30. 
[32] K.S. Kim, Y. Zhao, H. Jang, S.Y. Lee, J.M. Kim, J.H. Ahn, P. Kim, J.Y. 
Choi, B.H. Hong, Nature 2009, 457, 706. 
[33] F. Güneş, G. H. Han, K. K. Kim, E. S. Kim, S. J. Chae, M. H. Park, H.-K. 
Jeong, S. C. Lim, Y. H. Lee, Nano 2009, 4, 83. 
[34] X. Li, W. Cai,  J. An,  S. Kim,  J. Nah,  D. Yang,  R. Piner, A. 
Velamakanni,  I. Jung, E. Tutuc, S. K. Banerjee, L. Colombo,  R. S. 
Ruoff, Science 2009, 324, 1312. 
[35] H. P. Boehm, A. Clauss, G. O. Fischer, U. Hofmann, Zeitschrift für 
anorganische und allgemeine Chemie 1962, 316, 119. 
[36] X. Gao, J. Jang, S. Nagase, J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 832. 
[37] M.Winter, O. J.Besenhard, E. M. Spahr, P. Novák, Adv. Mater. 1998, 10, 
725. 
[38] M.Winter, P. Novák, A. Monnierb, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1998, 145, 428.  
[39] D. Bar-Tow, E. Peled, L. Bursteinb, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1999, 146, 824. 
[40] Y. Ren, R. A. Armstrong, F. Jiao, G. P. Bruce, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 
132, 996. 
[41] T. Tran, K. Kinoshita, J. Electroanal. Chem. 1995, 386, 221. 
[42] K. Persson, A. V. Sethuraman, J. L. Hardwick, Y. Hinuma, S. Y. Meng,  
A. Ven, V. Srinivasan, R. Kostecki, G. Ceder, Phys. Chem. Lett. 2010, 1, 
1176.  
143 
 
[43] Meyer, S. Passerini, M. Winter, J. Power Sources 2012, 200, 83. 
[44] B. Jungblut, E. Hoinkis, Phys. Rev. B 1989, 40, 10810. 
[45] Y. Yamada, K. Miyazaki, T. Abe, Langmuir 2010, 26(18), 14990. 
[46] J. M. Tarascon, D.G. Guyomard, Extended Abstracts, Spring Meeting of  
the Electrochemical Society, May 16-21, 1993, 93-1, Honolulu, HI, no. 
69. 
[47] T. Takamura, K. Endob, L. Fuc, Y. Wu, K. J. Lee, T. Matsumoto, 
Electrochim. Acta, 2007, 53, 1055. 
[48] X. S. Li, W. W. Cai, J. H. An, S. Kim, J. Nah, D. X. Yang, R. D. Piner,  
A.Velamakanni, I. Jung, E. Tutuc, S. K. Banerjee, L. Colombo, R. S.     
Ruoff, Science 2009, 324, 1312. 
[49] C. Biswas, Y. H. Lee, Adv. Func. Mater. 2011, 21, 3806. 
[50] W. J. Yu, S. H. Chae, S. Y. Lee, D. L. Duong, Y. H. Lee, Adv. Mater. 
2011, 23(16), 1889. 
[51] A. L. M. Reddy, A. Srivastava, R. S. Gowda, H. Gullapalli, M. Dubey, 
M. P. Ajayan, ACS Nano 2010, 4, 6337. 
[52] J. Vetter, P. Novák, M.R. Wagner, C. Veit, K.- C. Möller, J.O. Besenhard, 
M. Winter, M. Wohlfahrt-Mehrens, C. Vogler, A. Hammouche, J. Power 
Sources 2005, 147, 269. 
[53] P. Arora, E. R. White, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1998, 145, 3647. 
[54] T. Wijesinghe, D. Blackwood, Corrosion Science 2007, 49, 1755. 
[55] S. Kadry, European. J. Scientific Research 2008, 22, 508. 
[56] C.T. Hyams, J. Go, M.T. Devinea, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2007, 154, C390. 
144 
 
[57] S.-W. Song, J. T. Richardson, V. G. Zhuang, M. T. Devine, W. J. Evans,  
Electrochim. Acta 2004, 49, 1483. 
[58] X. Zhang, B. Winget, M. Doeff, W. J. Evans, M. T. Devine, J.  
Electrochem. Soc. 2005, 152, B448. 
[59] E. Pollak, B. Geng, K.-J. Jeon, T. I. Lucas, J. T. Richardson, F. Wang, R.  
Kostecki, Nano Lett. 2010, 10, 3386. 
[60] A. L. M. Reddy, A. Srivastava, R. S. Gowda, H. Gullapalli, M. Dubey, 
M. P. Ajayan, ACS Nano 2010, 4, 6337. 
[61] S. Chen, L. Brown, M. Levendorf, W. W. Cai, S.-Y. Ju, J. Edgeworth,  
X. Li, C. Magnuson, A. Velamakanni, D. R. Piner, J. Kang, J. Park, S. R. 
Ruoff, ACS Nano 2011, 5, 1321. 
[62] D. Prasai, J. C. Tuberquia, R. R. Harl, G. K. Jennings, K. I. Bolotin, ACS 
Nano 2012, 6 (2), 1102. 
[63] G. H. Han, F. Güneş, J. J. Bae, E. S. Kim, S. J. H.-J. Shin, J.-Y. Choi, D. 
Pribat, Y. H. Lee, Nano Lett. 2011, 11, 4144. 
[64] S. J. Chae, F. Güneş, K. K. Kim, E. S. Kim, G. H. Han, S. M. Kim. H.-J.  
Shin, S.- M. Yoon, J.-Y. Choi, M. H. Park, C. W. Yang, D. Pribat, Y. H. 
Lee, Adv. Mater. 2009, 19(16), 2553. 
[65] F. Güneş, G. H. Han, H.-J. Shin, S. Y. Lee, M. Jin, D. L. Duong, S. J. 
Chae, E. S. Kim,; F. Yao, A. Benayad, J.-Y. Choi, Y. H. Lee, Nano 2011, 
6, 409. 
[66] C. Casiraghi, S. Pisana, K. S. Novoselov, A. K. Geim, A. C. Ferrari, 
Appl. Phys. Lett. 2007, 91, 233108. 
145 
 
[67] R. R. Nair, P. Blake, A. N. Grigorenko, K. S. Novoselov, T. J. Booth, T. 
Stauber, N. M. R. Peres, A. K. Geim, Science 2008, 320, 1308. 
[68] E.J. Yoo, J. Kim, E. Hosono, H. S. Zhou, T. Kudo, I. Hunma, Nano  
Lett. 2008, 8, 2277. 
[69] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. 1996, 77, 3865. 
[70] Li, X.; Geng, D.; Zhang, Y.; Meng, X.; Li, R.; Su, X. Electrochem. 
Commu. 2011, 13, 822. 
[71] P.G. Bruce, B. Scrosati, J. - M. Tarascon, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 
2008,47, 2930. 
[72] J. Yan, J. Zhang, Y.C. Su, X. G. Zhang, B. Xia, J. Electrochim. Acta.  
2010, 55, 1785. 
[74] K. N. Kudin, B. Ozbas, H. C. Schniepp, R. K. Prud’homme, I. A.  
Aksay, R. Car, Nano Lett. 2008, 8, 36. 
[75] T. M. G. Mohiuddin, A. Lombardo, R. R. Nair, A. Bonetti, G. Savini, R. 
Jalil, N. Bonini, D. M. Basko, C. Galiotis, N. K. Marzari, S. Novoselov, 
A. K. Geim, A. C. Ferrari, Phys. Rev. B 2009, 79, 205433. 
 
146 
 
SUMMARY 
 
Carbon-Based Nanomaterials as an Anode for Lithium Ion 
Battery 
The improvement of the capacity of raw CNF mat has been realized in the 
current research through electrochemical deposition of Si. The Si/CNF mat 
prevents the use of metal substrate, binder, and conducting polymers. However, 
several drawbacks of the current free-standing Si/CNF mat structure need to be 
mentioned: (i) The as-fabricated CNF mat exhibited a rather lower conductivity 
compared to that of CNTs which could be the reason for the original low capacity 
(< 300 mAh/g) of raw CNF mat. (ii) The flexibly of the as-fabricated CNF mat 
reduces after high temperature annealing which hinders the further investigation 
for flexible anode applications. These two factors can be further improved by the 
incorporation of CNTs, graphene flakes or other more advanced materials. (iii) 
Although the interfacial binding strength of Si and CNF was improved by the 
formation of Si-C bond through annealing as discussed in the context, structural 
pulverization of deposited Si film induced by the large volume expansion during 
charge/discharge was still observed in the current structure. Therefore, increasing 
the Si anchoring sites on the CNF mat by the surface functionalization and 
enhancing the degree of entanglement through the introduction of CNTs could 
provide better structure stability. The optimization to improve composite 
147 
 
structures for capacity, charge transfer, and cycle life is further required for 
industry applications. 
 
On the other hand, in order to clarify the Li diffusion pathways through 
graphene plane and the role of defects in Li diffusion to reveal the mystery of Li-
C system, graphene was used as a media for the study of this fundamental 
science of diffusion in this work. We found that the electrochemical performance 
of few-layer graphenes which are overlapped up to three layers of single layer 
graphene is strongly affected by the substrate reaction. Experimental results 
showed that 6 layers of basal plane-enriched large area graphene were needed to 
provide sufficient substrate protection from severe electrolyte attack. Li diffusion 
across the pure basal plane of graphene is strongly limited and nevertheless non-
negligible diffusion is still allowed, suggesting possible diffusion through defects 
that might be formed on the graphene plane. Combing the experimental results 
and density functional theory calculations, we found that divacancies and higher 
order defects can be shortcuts for lithium ion diffusion with respect to the 
graphene basal plane. Further exploration of high energy density and long 
lifetime anode by fabricating high capacity materials on graphene could be an 
interesting research direction in the future. 
 
Key Words:  nanocarbon materials, lithium ion battery, carbon nanofiber, silicon,  
            Graphene 
148 
 
CURRICULUM VITAE 
 
FEI YAO 
 
LPICM-École Polytechnique, CNRS (UMR 7647)  
Laboratoire de Physique des Interfaces et Couches Minces 
Route de Saclay; 91128 PALAISEAU Cedex, France 
 
IBS Center for Integrated Nanostructure Physics, Institute for Basic Science, Department of 
Energy Science, Sungkyunkwan University 
Room 85689, Corporate Collaboration Center, 300 Cheoncheon-dong, Jangan-gu, Suwon, 
Gyeonggi-do 440-746, Korea · 82-31-299-6509 ·  
Mobile: +82-10-2757-1299  
E-mail: apaperyao@gmail.com, yaofei@skku.edu 
 
 
Education 
______________________________________________________ 
 
  
2010.08 ~           P h .D . candidate 
LPICM-École Polytechnique 
Laboratoire de Physique des Interfaces et Couches Minces, 
Route de Saclay; 91128 PALAISEAU Cedex , France; 
 
 
IBS Center for Integrated Nanostructure Physics, Institute for 
Basic Science, Department of Energy Science, 
Sungkyunkwan University, 
Korea. 
Advisor:  Professor Young Hee Lee 
 
         Dr. Costel-Sorin Cojocaru 
  
2008.03 ~ 2010.08    M  .S    
Sungkyunkwan Advanced Institute of Nanotechnology 
 Sungkyunkwan University 
Korea. 
 Advisor:  Professor Young Hee Lee 
149 
 
2003.09~2007.09     B . S   
Department of Electronic Information Engineering 
 Shandong Normal University 
China. 
 
 
 
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE 
_____________________________________________________________________ 
 
1. CNT gas sensor fabrication 
- Enhancement of sensitivity to NO2, SO2, NH3 gases etc. 
- Selectivity among NO2, SO2, NH3 gases etc. 
2. Dispersion of SWCNTs / MWCNTs  
- In water with surfactant (SDS, NaDDBS etc) 
- In organic solution (NMP, DCE etc) 
3. Synthesis of graphene and carbon nanotubes by chemical vapor deposition 
- Large-area few-layer graphene synthesis on metal substrates (Ni, Cu), etching & 
transfer onto desired substrates (SiO2, PET etc.) 
- Large-area monolayer graphene growth on Cu foil, etching & transfer processes 
- Synthesis of SWCNTs network and MWCNTs by chemical vapor deposition 
4. Doping of graphene for electrode applications 
    - P-type doping by metal-salts and acid solutions for enhancement of conductivity 
for flexible transparent conducting film applications  
  - Multiple-layered graphene film preparation and investigation of conductivity 
enhancement by Layer-by-Layer (LBL) doping 
5. Carbon nanofiber fabrication using electrospinning method for energy application 
- Carbon nanofibers with CNT composite  
- Carbon nanofiber with Si composite 
6. Si-based material synthesis and energy storage applications 
- Si thin film deposition by PECVD for energy application (lithium ion battery, 
solar cell) 
- Si nanoparticle deposition by electrochemical method for battery application. 
7. Fuel cell application with carbon-based materials 
 
 
 
 
150 
 
EQUIPMENTS 
_____________________________________________________________________ 
 
- Plasma enhanced CVD, Thermal CVD, Atomosphere pressure CVD 
- E-beam and thermal evaporator 
- Magnetron sputter 
- Micro Raman and confocal Raman spectroscopy 
- High resolution scanning electron microscope (HR-SEM) 
- Atomic force microscope (AFM) 
- UV-NIR absorption spectroscopy 
- Potentiostat /Galvanostat equipment 
- Spray equipment 
- Electrospinning equipment 
 
 
 
PUBLICATIONS (SCI journal) 
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 
 
12. Fethullah Gunes ,⃰  Fei Yao ,⃰  Hongyan Yue, Hung T. Nguyen, Bing Li, and Young 
Hee Lee, 'A direct synthesis of Si-nanowires on a 3D porous graphene as high 
performance anode material for Li-ion batteries', 2013, submitted. 
 
11. M. Jin, Fei Yao, J. Chang, and Y. H. Lee, 'Graphene sheets as anode materials with 
super high rate and large capacity for Lithium ion batteries' 2013, in preparation. 
 
10. Jian Chang, Meihua Jin, Fei Yao, and Young Hee Lee, 'Asymmetric Supercapacitors 
Based on Graphene/MnO2 Nanospheres and Graphene/MoO3 Nanosheets with High 
Energy Density ' 2013, Adv. Func. Mater., accepted. 
 
9. Seung Mi Lee, Fei Yao, and Young Hee Lee, 'Lithium ion diffusion through basal 
plane of graphene: A density functional theory study' 2013, J. Nanoscience and 
nanotechnology, submitted. 
 
8. Fei Yao, Bing Li., Fethullah Gunes, Costel Sorin Cojocaru, and Lee, Y. H. 'Silicon 
and carbon nanofiber composite as an anode material for lithium ion battery' 2013, 
Nanoscale, submitted. 
 
151 
 
    
7. Thuc Hue Ly, Dinh Loc Duong,Quang Huy Ta, Fei Yao, Quoc An Vu, Hye Yun Jeong,
Sang Hoon Chae, and Young Hee Lee, 'Nondestructive Characterization of Graphene 
Defects' 2013, Adv. Func. Mater, accepted. 
 
6. Fei Yao, Fethullah Gunes, Huy Quang Ta, Seung Mi Lee, Seung Jin Chae, Kyeu 
Yoon Sheem, Costel Sorin Cojocaru, Si Shen Xie, and Young Hee Lee, 'Diffusion 
Mechanism of Lithium Ion through Basal Plane of Layered Graphene', J. Am. Chem. 
Soc., 134(20), 8646-8654, (May 23, 2012). 
 
5. Hung T. Nguyen, Fei Yao, Mihai R. Zamfir, Chandan Biswas, Kang Pyo So, Young 
Hee Lee, Seong Min Kim, Seung Nam Cha, Jong Min Kim, Didier Pribat, 'Highly 
Interconnected Si Nanowires for Improved Stability Li-Ion Battery Anodes', Advanced 
Energy Materials ,1(6), 1154–1161, (Nov, 2011). 
 
4. Fethullah Güneş, Gang Hee Han, Hyeon-Jin Shin, Si Young Lee, Meihua Jin, Dinh 
Loc Duong, Seung Jin Chae, Eun Sung Kim, Fei Yao, Anass Benayad, Jae-Young Choi 
and Young Hee Lee, ‘UV Light-Assisted Oxidative Sp3-Hybridization of Graphene’, 
NANO, 6 (5),409–418, (May 26, 2011). 
 
3. Fei Yao, Dinh Loc Duong, Seong Chu Lim, Seung Bum Yang, Ha Ryong Hwang, 
Woo Jong Yu, Il Ha Lee, Fethullah Gunes, and Young Hee Lee, 'Humidity-assisted 
selective reactivity between NO2 and SO2 gas on carbon nanotubes', J. Mat. Chem., 
21(12), 4502-4508, (Mar. 28, 2011).  
 
2.Il Ha Lee, Un Jeong Kim, Hyung Bin Son, Seon-Mi Yoon, Fei Yao, Woo Jong Yu, 
Dinh Loc Duong, Jae-Young Choi, Jong Min Kim, Eun Hong Lee and Young Hee Lee, 
'Hygroscopic Effects on AuCl3-Doped Carbon Nanotubes', Journal of Physical 
Chemistry C, 114(26), 11618-11622 ,(Jun. 10. 2010). 
 
1. Fei Yao, Seong Chu Lim, Woo Jong Yu, Il Ha Lee, Fethullah Gunes, Ha Ryong 
Hwang, Seung Bum Yang, Kang Pyo So, Gang Hee Han, and Young Hee Lee, 'AC 
Response to Gas Exposure in Vertically Aligned Multiwalled Carbon Nanotube 
Electrode', J. Phys. Chem. C, 114(8), 3659-3663, (Feb. 5, 2010). 
 
 
PATENTS (Korea) 
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 
 
152 
 
Large Area Graphene as a Protecting Layer for Metal Corrosion, submitted. 
Presentations  
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 
6. Fei Yao, Bing Li, Kangpyo So, Jian Chang, Vu Quoc An, Didier Priba1, Costel Sorin 
Cojocaru, Hongyan Yue, Sishen Xie, Young Hee Lee1, 'Silicon-Coated Carbon 
Nanofiber Mat for Anode of Lithium Ion Battery', Imaginenano 2013, Bilbao, Spain, 
April 23~26, 2013, oral. 
 
5. Fei Yao, Fethullah Gunes, Ta Quang Huy, Seung Mi Lee, Seung Jin Chae, Kyeu Yoon 
Shem, Costel Sorin Cojocaru, Si Shen Xie, Young Hee Lee, 'Lithium Ion Diffusion 
Through Basal Plane of Layered Graphene Synthesized by Chemical Vapor Deposition', 
16th International Meeting on Lithium Batteries (New Era for Smart Energy Storage) 
(IMLB 2012), ICC Jeju, Korea, June 17~22, 2012, p.104. 
 
4. Fei Yao, Hung Tran Nguyen, Kang Pyo So, Chandan Biswas, Giduk Kwon, Si Thanh 
Pham, Zamfir Mihai Robert, Young Hee Lee and Didier Pribat, 'Carbon Nanofiber/Si 
Nanowire As an Anodematerial for Li-Ion Battery', 1st Korean-French Seminar On 
Nanomaterials for Energy, Sungkyunkwan University, Mar. 6-8,2011, p.50 
 
3. Fei Yao, Hung Tran Nguyen, Kang Pyo So, Chandan Biswas, Giduk Kwon, Si Thanh 
Pham, Zamfir Mihai Robert, Young Hee Lee, Dider Pribat, 'Carbon Nanofiber/Si 
Nanowire as An Anode Material for Li-Ion Battery', A3 Symposium on Emerging 
Materials: Nanocarbons and Nanowires for Energy, Core-Riviera Hotel, Jeonju, Nov. 7-
11. 2010, p.61 
 
2. Fei Yao, Duong Dinh Loc, Seong Chu Lim, Seung Bum Yang, Ha Ryong Hwang, 
Woo Jong Yu, Fethullah Gunes, Young Hee Lee, 'Humidity-assisted selective reactivity 
between NO2 and SO2 gas on carbon nanotubes', NT10(11th International Conference 
on the Science and Application of Nanotubes 2010), Hilton Bonaventure Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada, Jun 27-Jul 2. 2010, p.96 
 
1. Fei Yao, Seong Chu Lim, Woo Joong Yu, Fethullah Gunes and Young Hee Lee 
'Capacitive Gas Sensor of Vertically Aligned Carbon Nanotubes', International Green 
Energy Nanocarbon Conference 2009,Jeollabuk-do provincial office, Jeonju, Korea, 
Nov. 3~6. 2009, p.155 
 
 
153 
 
 154 
 
